**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**

# **17 Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**

## **17.1 TIM1 introduction**


The advanced-control timers (TIM1) consist of a 16-bit auto-reload counter driven by a
programmable prescaler.


It may be used for a variety of purposes, including measuring the pulse lengths of input
signals (input capture) or generating output waveforms (output compare, PWM,
complementary PWM with dead-time insertion).


Pulse lengths and waveform periods can be modulated from a few microseconds to several
milliseconds using the timer prescaler and the RCC clock controller prescalers.


The advanced-control (TIM1) and general-purpose (TIMx) timers are completely
independent, and do not share any resources. They can be synchronized together as
described in _Section 17.3.20_ .

## **17.2 TIM1 main features**


TIM1 timer features include:


      - 16-bit up, down, up/down auto-reload counter.


      - 16-bit programmable prescaler allowing dividing (also “on the fly”) the counter clock
frequency either by any factor between 1 and 65535.


      - Up to 4 independent channels for:


–
Input Capture


–
Output Compare


–
PWM generation (Edge- and Center-aligned modes)


–
One-pulse mode output


      - Complementary outputs with programmable dead-time


      - Synchronization circuit to control the timer with external signals and to interconnect
several timers together.


      - Repetition counter to update the timer registers only after a given number of cycles of
the counter.


      - Break input to put the timer’s output signals in reset state or in a known state.


      - Interrupt/DMA generation on the following events:


–
Update: counter overflow/underflow, counter initialization (by software or
internal/external trigger)


–
Trigger event (counter start, stop, initialization or count by internal/external trigger)


–
Input capture


–
Output compare


–
Break input


      - Supports incremental (quadrature) encoder and hall-sensor circuitry for positioning

purposes


      - Trigger input for external clock or cycle-by-cycle current management


328/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Figure 63. Advanced-control timer block diagram**






















































































































|1|1 reg|gis|Ou DTG ster|Col5|utput|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|2|reg|is|CC2I<br>co<br>DTG<br>OC2REF<br>ter<br>O<br>co<br>DTG|CC2I<br>co<br>DTG<br>OC2REF<br>ter<br>O<br>co<br>DTG|ntrol<br>OC1N<br>utput<br>ntrol<br>OC2|
|2|reg|i|CC3I<br>O<br><br>OC3REF<br>ter<br>|CC3I<br>O<br><br>OC3REF<br>ter<br>|utput<br>OC3<br>OC2N|
|2|reg|i|CC3I<br>O<br><br>OC3REF<br>ter<br>|CC3I<br>O<br><br>OC3REF<br>ter<br>|ntrol<br>OC4<br>OC3N<br>utput|
|2|reg|i|CC3I<br>O<br><br>OC3REF<br>ter<br>|co|co|



RM0091 Rev 10 329/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**

## **17.3 TIM1 functional description**


**17.3.1** **Time-base unit**


The main block of the programmable advanced-control timer is a 16-bit counter with its
related auto-reload register. The counter can count up, down or both up and down. The
counter clock can be divided by a prescaler.


The counter, the auto-reload register and the prescaler register can be written or read by
software. This is true even when the counter is running.


The time-base unit includes:


      - Counter register (TIMx_CNT)


      - Prescaler register (TIMx_PSC)


      - Auto-reload register (TIMx_ARR)


      - Repetition counter register (TIMx_RCR)


The auto-reload register is preloaded. Writing to or reading from the auto-reload register
accesses the preload register. The content of the preload register are transferred into the
shadow register permanently or at each update event (UEV), depending on the auto-reload
preload enable bit (ARPE) in TIMx_CR1 register. The update event is sent when the counter
reaches the overflow (or underflow when downcounting) and if the UDIS bit equals 0 in the
TIMx_CR1 register. It can also be generated by software. The generation of the update
event is described in detailed for each configuration.


The counter is clocked by the prescaler output CK_CNT, which is enabled only when the
counter enable bit (CEN) in TIMx_CR1 register is set (refer also to the slave mode controller
description to get more details on counter enabling).


Note that the counter starts counting 1 clock cycle after setting the CEN bit in the TIMx_CR1
register.


**Prescaler description**


The prescaler can divide the counter clock frequency by any factor between 1 and 65536. It
is based on a 16-bit counter controlled through a 16-bit register (in the TIMx_PSC register).
It can be changed on the fly as this control register is buffered. The new prescaler ratio is
taken into account at the next update event.


_Figure 65_ and _Figure 66_ give some examples of the counter behavior when the prescaler
ratio is changed on the fly:


330/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Figure 64. Counter timing diagram with prescaler division change from 1 to 2**







|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|00|00|01|01|02|02|02|03|03|
|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8|||||0|1|0|1|0|1|0|0|1|


**Figure 65. Counter timing diagram with prescaler division change from 1 to 4**











|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|F8|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|00|00|00|00|00|00|00|00|
|F8|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||0|1|2|3|0|1|2|3|


RM0091 Rev 10 331/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**17.3.2** **Counter modes**


**Upcounting mode**


In upcounting mode, the counter counts from 0 to the auto-reload value (content of the
TIMx_ARR register), then restarts from 0 and generates a counter overflow event.


If the repetition counter is used, the update event (UEV) is generated after upcounting is
repeated for the number of times programmed in the repetition counter register
(TIMx_RCR). Else the update event is generated at each counter overflow.


Setting the UG bit in the TIMx_EGR register (by software or by using the slave mode
controller) also generates an update event.


The UEV event can be disabled by software by setting the UDIS bit in the TIMx_CR1
register. This is to avoid updating the shadow registers while writing new values in the
preload registers. Then no update event occurs until the UDIS bit has been written to 0.
However, the counter restarts from 0, as well as the counter of the prescaler (but the
prescale rate does not change). In addition, if the URS bit (update request selection) in
TIMx_CR1 register is set, setting the UG bit generates an update event UEV but without
setting the UIF flag (thus no interrupt or DMA request is sent). This is to avoid generating
both update and capture interrupts when clearing the counter on the capture event.


When an update event occurs, all the registers are updated and the update flag (UIF bit in
TIMx_SR register) is set (depending on the URS bit):


      - The repetition counter is reloaded with the content of TIMx_RCR register,


      - The auto-reload shadow register is updated with the preload value (TIMx_ARR),


      - The buffer of the prescaler is reloaded with the preload value (content of the TIMx_PSC
register).


The following figures show some examples of the counter behavior for different clock
frequencies when TIMx_ARR=0x36.


332/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Figure 66. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 1**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|32|33|34|35|36|00|01|02|03|04|05|06|07|



**Figure 67. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 2**







RM0091 Rev 10 333/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**Figure 68. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 4**







**Figure 69. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by N**









334/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Figure 70. Counter timing diagram, update event when ARPE=0**
**(TIMx_ARR not preloaded)**









**Figure 71. Counter timing diagram, update event when ARPE=1**
**(TIMx_ARR preloaded)**








|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|F1|F2|F3|F4|F5|00|01|02|









RM0091 Rev 10 335/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**Downcounting mode**


In downcounting mode, the counter counts from the auto-reload value (content of the
TIMx_ARR register) down to 0, then restarts from the auto-reload value and generates a
counter underflow event.


If the repetition counter is used, the update event (UEV) is generated after downcounting is
repeated for the number of times programmed in the repetition counter register
(TIMx_RCR). Else the update event is generated at each counter underflow.


Setting the UG bit in the TIMx_EGR register (by software or by using the slave mode
controller) also generates an update event.


The UEV update event can be disabled by software by setting the UDIS bit in TIMx_CR1
register. This is to avoid updating the shadow registers while writing new values in the
preload registers. Then no update event occurs until UDIS bit has been written to 0.
However, the counter restarts from the current auto-reload value, whereas the counter of the
prescaler restarts from 0 (but the prescale rate doesn’t change).


In addition, if the URS bit (update request selection) in TIMx_CR1 register is set, setting the
UG bit generates an update event UEV but without setting the UIF flag (thus no interrupt or
DMA request is sent). This is to avoid generating both update and capture interrupts when
clearing the counter on the capture event.


When an update event occurs, all the registers are updated and the update flag (UIF bit in
TIMx_SR register) is set (depending on the URS bit):


      - The repetition counter is reloaded with the content of TIMx_RCR register


      - The buffer of the prescaler is reloaded with the preload value (content of the TIMx_PSC
register)


      - The auto-reload active register is updated with the preload value (content of the
TIMx_ARR register). Note that the auto-reload is updated before the counter is
reloaded, so that the next period is the expected one


The following figures show some examples of the counter behavior for different clock
frequencies when TIMx_ARR=0x36.


**Figure 72. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 1**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|04|03|02|01|00|36|35|34|33|32|31|30|2F|



336/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Figure 73. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 2**







**Figure 74. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 4**









**Figure 75. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by N**


RM0091 Rev 10 337/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**Figure 76. Counter timing diagram, update event when repetition counter is not used**







**Center-aligned mode (up/down counting)**


In center-aligned mode, the counter counts from 0 to the auto-reload value (content of the
TIMx_ARR register) – 1, generates a counter overflow event, then counts from the autoreload value down to 1 and generates a counter underflow event. Then it restarts counting
from 0.


Center-aligned mode is active when the CMS bits in TIMx_CR1 register are not equal to
'00'. The Output compare interrupt flag of channels configured in output is set when: the
counter counts down (Center aligned mode 1, CMS = “01”), the counter counts up (Center
aligned mode 2, CMS = “10”) the counter counts up and down (Center aligned mode 3,
CMS = “11”).


In this mode, the DIR direction bit in the TIMx_CR1 register cannot be written. It is updated
by hardware and gives the current direction of the counter.


The update event can be generated at each counter overflow and at each counter underflow
or by setting the UG bit in the TIMx_EGR register (by software or by using the slave mode
controller) also generates an update event. In this case, the counter restarts counting from
0, as well as the counter of the prescaler.


The UEV update event can be disabled by software by setting the UDIS bit in the TIMx_CR1
register. This is to avoid updating the shadow registers while writing new values in the
preload registers. Then no update event occurs until UDIS bit has been written to 0.
However, the counter continues counting up and down, based on the current auto-reload
value.


In addition, if the URS bit (update request selection) in TIMx_CR1 register is set, setting the
UG bit generates an UEV update event but without setting the UIF flag (thus no interrupt or
DMA request is sent). This is to avoid generating both update and capture interrupts when
clearing the counter on the capture event.


338/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


When an update event occurs, all the registers are updated and the update flag (UIF bit in
TIMx_SR register) is set (depending on the URS bit):


      - The repetition counter is reloaded with the content of TIMx_RCR register


      - The buffer of the prescaler is reloaded with the preload value (content of the TIMx_PSC
register)


      - The auto-reload active register is updated with the preload value (content of the
TIMx_ARR register). Note that if the update source is a counter overflow, the autoreload is updated before the counter is reloaded, so that the next period is the expected
one (the counter is loaded with the new value).


The following figures show some examples of the counter behavior for different clock
frequencies.


**Figure 77. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 1, TIMx_ARR = 0x6**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|03|02|01|00|01|02<br>|03|04|05|06|05|04|03|
|03|02|01|||||||||||
|03|02|01|||||||||||



1. Here, center-aligned mode 1 is used (for more details refer to _Section 17.4: TIM1 registers on page 375_ ).


RM0091 Rev 10 339/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**Figure 78. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 2**







**Figure 79. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 4, TIMx_ARR=0x36**







1. Center-aligned mode 2 or 3 is used with an UIF on overflow.


340/1017 RM0091 Rev 10




**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Figure 80. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by N**









**Figure 81. Counter timing diagram, update event with ARPE=1 (counter underflow)**











|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||||||||||
|6|0|5<br>04|03|02|01|00|01|02|03|04|05|06|07|
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|
|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|


RM0091 Rev 10 341/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**Figure 82. Counter timing diagram, Update event with ARPE=1 (counter overflow)**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|36|35|34|





**17.3.3** **Repetition counter**





_Section 17.3.1: Time-base unit_ describes how the update event (UEV) is generated with
respect to the counter overflows/underflows. It is actually generated only when the repetition
counter has reached zero. This can be useful when generating PWM signals.


This means that data are transferred from the preload registers to the shadow registers
(TIMx_ARR auto-reload register, TIMx_PSC prescaler register, but also TIMx_CCRx
capture/compare registers in compare mode) every N counter overflows or underflows,
where N is the value in the TIMx_RCR repetition counter register.


The repetition counter is decremented:


      - At each counter overflow in upcounting mode,


      - At each counter underflow in downcounting mode,


      - At each counter overflow and at each counter underflow in center-aligned mode.
Although this limits the maximum number of repetition to 128 PWM cycles, it makes it
possible to update the duty cycle twice per PWM period. When refreshing compare
registers only once per PWM period in center-aligned mode, maximum resolution is
2xT ck, due to the symmetry of the pattern.


The repetition counter is an auto-reload type; the repetition rate is maintained as defined by
the TIMx_RCR register value (refer to _Figure 83_ ). When the update event is generated by
software (by setting the UG bit in TIMx_EGR register) or by hardware through the slave
mode controller, it occurs immediately whatever the value of the repetition counter is and the
repetition counter is reloaded with the content of the TIMx_RCR register.


342/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


In center-aligned mode, for odd values of RCR, the update event occurs either on the
overflow or on the underflow depending on when the RCR register was written and when
the counter was started. If the RCR was written before starting the counter, the UEV occurs
on the overflow. If the RCR was written after starting the counter, the UEV occurs on the
underflow. For example for RCR = 3, the UEV is generated on each 4th overflow or
underflow event depending on when RCR was written.


**Figure 83. Update rate examples depending on mode and TIMx_RCR register settings**













RM0091 Rev 10 343/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**17.3.4** **Clock sources**


The counter clock can be provided by the following clock sources:


      - Internal clock (CK_INT)


      - External clock mode1: external input pin


      - External clock mode2: external trigger input ETR


      - Internal trigger inputs (ITRx): using one timer as prescaler for another timer, for
example, Timer 1 can be configured to act as a prescaler for Timer 2. Refer to _Using_
_one timer as prescaler for another on page 440_ for more details.


**Internal clock source (CK_INT)**


If the slave mode controller is disabled (SMS=000), then the CEN, DIR (in the TIMx_CR1
register) and UG bits (in the TIMx_EGR register) are actual control bits and can be changed
only by software (except UG which remains cleared automatically). As soon as the CEN bit
is written to 1, the prescaler is clocked by the internal clock CK_INT.


_Figure 84_ shows the behavior of the control circuit and the upcounter in normal mode,
without prescaler.


**Figure 84. Control circuit in normal mode, internal clock divided by 1**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|31|3 2|33|34|35|36|00|01|02|03|04|05|06|07|



344/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**External clock source mode 1**


This mode is selected when SMS=111 in the TIMx_SMCR register. The counter can count at
each rising or falling edge on a selected input.


**Figure 85. TI2 external clock connection example**











































For example, to configure the upcounter to count in response to a rising edge on the TI2
input, use the following procedure:


1. Configure channel 2 to detect rising edges on the TI2 input by writing CC2S = ‘01’ in
the TIMx_CCMR1 register.


2. Configure the input filter duration by writing the IC2F[3:0] bits in the TIMx_CCMR1
register (if no filter is needed, keep IC2F=0000).


3. Select rising edge polarity by writing CC2P=0 in the TIMx_CCER register.


4. Configure the timer in external clock mode 1 by writing SMS=111 in the TIMx_SMCR
register.


5. Select TI2 as the trigger input source by writing TS=110 in the TIMx_SMCR register.


6. Enable the counter by writing CEN=1 in the TIMx_CR1 register.


_Note:_ _The capture prescaler is not used for triggering, so it does not need to be configured._


For code examples refer to the Appendix section _A.9.1: Upcounter on TI2 rising edge code_
_example_ .


When a rising edge occurs on TI2, the counter counts once and the TIF flag is set.


The delay between the rising edge on TI2 and the actual clock of the counter is due to the
resynchronization circuit on TI2 input.


RM0091 Rev 10 345/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**Figure 86. Control circuit in external clock mode 1**


**External clock source mode 2**


This mode is selected by writing ECE=1 in the TIMx_SMCR register.


The counter can count at each rising or falling edge on the external trigger input ETR.


The _Figure 87_ gives an overview of the external trigger input block.


**Figure 87. External trigger input block**













































For example, to configure the upcounter to count each 2 rising edges on ETR, use the
following procedure:


346/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


1. As no filter is needed in this example, write ETF[3:0]=0000 in the TIMx_SMCR register.


2. Set the prescaler by writing ETPS[1:0]=01 in the TIMx_SMCR register


3. Select rising edge detection on the ETR pin by writing ETP=0 in the TIMx_SMCR
register


4. Enable external clock mode 2 by writing ECE=1 in the TIMx_SMCR register.


5. Enable the counter by writing CEN=1 in the TIMx_CR1 register.


The counter counts once each 2 ETR rising edges.


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.2: Up counter on each 2 ETR rising_
_edges code example_ .


The delay between the rising edge on ETR and the actual clock of the counter is due to the
resynchronization circuit on the ETRP signal.


**Figure 88. Control circuit in external clock mode 2**







**17.3.5** **Capture/compare channels**


Each Capture/Compare channel is built around a capture/compare register (including a
shadow register), a input stage for capture (with digital filter, multiplexing and prescaler) and
an output stage (with comparator and output control).


_Figure 89_ to _Figure 92_ give an overview of one Capture/Compare channel.


The input stage samples the corresponding TIx input to generate a filtered signal TIxF.
Then, an edge detector with polarity selection generates a signal (TIxFPx) which can be
used as trigger input by the slave mode controller or as the capture command. It is
prescaled before the capture register (ICxPS).


RM0091 Rev 10 347/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**Figure 89. Capture/compare channel (example: channel 1 input stage)**











































The output stage generates an intermediate waveform which is then used for reference:
OCxRef (active high). The polarity acts at the end of the chain.



**Figure 90. Capture/compare channel 1 main circuit**

















































348/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Figure 91. Output stage of capture/compare channel (channel 1 to 3)**






























|Col1|Dead-time<br>generator|OC1_DT|
|---|---|---|
||Dead-time<br>generator|OC1N_DT|














|Col1|CC1NE|Col3|CC1E|
|---|---|---|---|
|MOE|MOE|OSS<br>|I<br>OSSR|













**Figure 92. Output stage of capture/compare channel (channel 4)**

































The capture/compare block is made of one preload register and one shadow register. Write
and read always access the preload register.


In capture mode, captures are actually done in the shadow register, which is copied into the
preload register.


In compare mode, the content of the preload register is copied into the shadow register
which is compared to the counter.


RM0091 Rev 10 349/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**17.3.6** **Input capture mode**


In Input capture mode, the Capture/Compare Registers (TIMx_CCRx) are used to latch the
value of the counter after a transition detected by the corresponding ICx signal. When a
capture occurs, the corresponding CCXIF flag (TIMx_SR register) is set and an interrupt or
a DMA request can be sent if they are enabled. If a capture occurs while the CCxIF flag was
already high, then the over-capture flag CCxOF (TIMx_SR register) is set. CCxIF can be
cleared by software by writing it to ‘0’ or by reading the captured data stored in the
TIMx_CCRx register. CCxOF is cleared when it is written with 0.


The following example shows how to capture the counter value in TIMx_CCR1 when TI1
input rises. To do this, use the following procedure:


      - Select the active input: TIMx_CCR1 must be linked to the TI1 input, so write the CC1S
bits to 01 in the TIMx_CCMR1 register. As soon as CC1S becomes different from 00,
the channel is configured in input and the TIMx_CCR1 register becomes read-only.


      - Program the appropriate input filter duration in relation with the signal connected to the
timer (when the input is one of the TIx (ICxF bits in the TIMx_CCMRx register). Let’s
imagine that, when toggling, the input signal is not stable during at must 5 internal clock
cycles. We must program a filter duration longer than these 5 clock cycles. We can
validate a transition on TI1 when 8 consecutive samples with the new level have been
detected (sampled at f DTS frequency). Then write IC1F bits to 0011 in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register.


      - Select the edge of the active transition on the TI1 channel by writing CC1P and CC1NP
bits to 0 in the TIMx_CCER register (rising edge in this case).


      - Program the input prescaler. In our example, we wish the capture to be performed at
each valid transition, so the prescaler is disabled (write IC1PS bits to ‘00’ in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register).


      - Enable capture from the counter into the capture register by setting the CC1E bit in the
TIMx_CCER register.


      - If needed, enable the related interrupt request by setting the CC1IE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register, and/or the DMA request by setting the CC1DE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register.


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.3: Input capture configuration code_
_example_ .


When an input capture occurs:


      - The TIMx_CCR1 register gets the value of the counter on the active transition.


      - CC1IF flag is set (interrupt flag). CC1OF is also set if at least two consecutive captures
occurred whereas the flag was not cleared.


      - An interrupt is generated depending on the CC1IE bit.


      - A DMA request is generated depending on the CC1DE bit.


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.4: Input capture data management_
_code example_ .


In order to handle the overcapture, it is recommended to read the data before the
overcapture flag. This is to avoid missing an overcapture which could happen after reading
the flag and before reading the data.


_Note:_ _IC interrupt and/or DMA requests can be generated by software by setting the_
_corresponding CCxG bit in the TIMx_EGR register._


350/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**17.3.7** **PWM input mode**


This mode is a particular case of input capture mode. The procedure is the same except:


      - Two ICx signals are mapped on the same TIx input.


      - These 2 ICx signals are active on edges with opposite polarity.


      - One of the two TIxFP signals is selected as trigger input and the slave mode controller
is configured in reset mode.


For example, one can measure the period (in TIMx_CCR1 register) and the duty cycle (in
TIMx_CCR2 register) of the PWM applied on TI1 using the following procedure (depending
on CK_INT frequency and prescaler value):


      - Select the active input for TIMx_CCR1: write the CC1S bits to 01 in the TIMx_CCMR1
register (TI1 selected).


      - Select the active polarity for TI1FP1 (used both for capture in TIMx_CCR1 and counter
clear): write the CC1P and CC1NP bits to ‘0’ (active on rising edge).


      - Select the active input for TIMx_CCR2: write the CC2S bits to 10 in the TIMx_CCMR1
register (TI1 selected).


      - Select the active polarity for TI1FP2 (used for capture in TIMx_CCR2): write the CC2P
bit to '1' and the CC2NP bit to '0' (active on falling edge).


      - Select the valid trigger input: write the TS bits to 101 in the TIMx_SMCR register
(TI1FP1 selected).


      - Configure the slave mode controller in reset mode: write the SMS bits to 100 in the
TIMx_SMCR register.


      - Enable the captures: write the CC1E and CC2E bits to ‘1’ in the TIMx_CCER register.


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.5: PWM input configuration code_
_example_ .


**Figure 93. PWM input mode timing**


RM0091 Rev 10 351/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**17.3.8** **Forced output mode**


In output mode (CCxS bits = 00 in the TIMx_CCMRx register), each output compare signal
(OCxREF and then OCx/OCxN) can be forced to active or inactive level directly by software,
independently of any comparison between the output compare register and the counter.


To force an output compare signal (OCXREF/OCx) to its active level, one just needs to write
101 in the OCxM bits in the corresponding TIMx_CCMRx register. Thus OCXREF is forced
high (OCxREF is always active high) and OCx get opposite value to CCxP polarity bit.


For example: CCxP=0 (OCx active high) => OCx is forced to high level.


The OCxREF signal can be forced low by writing the OCxM bits to 100 in the TIMx_CCMRx
register.


Anyway, the comparison between the TIMx_CCRx shadow register and the counter is still
performed and allows the flag to be set. Interrupt and DMA requests can be sent
accordingly. This is described in the output compare mode section below.


**17.3.9** **Output compare mode**


This function is used to control an output waveform or indicating when a period of time has
elapsed.


When a match is found between the capture/compare register and the counter, the output
compare function:


      - Assigns the corresponding output pin to a programmable value defined by the output
compare mode (OCxM bits in the TIMx_CCMRx register) and the output polarity (CCxP
bit in the TIMx_CCER register). The output pin can keep its level (OCXM=000), be set
active (OCxM=001), be set inactive (OCxM=010) or can toggle (OCxM=011) on match.


      - Sets a flag in the interrupt status register (CCxIF bit in the TIMx_SR register).


      - Generates an interrupt if the corresponding interrupt mask is set (CCXIE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register).


      - Sends a DMA request if the corresponding enable bit is set (CCxDE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register, CCDS bit in the TIMx_CR2 register for the DMA request
selection).


The TIMx_CCRx registers can be programmed with or without preload registers using the
OCxPE bit in the TIMx_CCMRx register.


In output compare mode, the update event UEV has no effect on OCxREF and OCx output.
The timing resolution is one count of the counter. Output compare mode can also be used to
output a single pulse (in One Pulse mode).


352/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


Procedure:


1. Select the counter clock (internal, external, prescaler).


2. Write the desired data in the TIMx_ARR and TIMx_CCRx registers.


3. Set the CCxIE bit if an interrupt request is to be generated.


4. Select the output mode. For example:


–
Write OCxM = 011 to toggle OCx output pin when CNT matches CCRx


–
Write OCxPE = 0 to disable preload register


–
Write CCxP = 0 to select active high polarity


–
Write CCxE = 1 to enable the output


5. Enable the counter by setting the CEN bit in the TIMx_CR1 register.


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.7: Output compare configuration code_
_example_ .


The TIMx_CCRx register can be updated at any time by software to control the output
waveform, provided that the preload register is not enabled (OCxPE=’0’, else TIMx_CCRx
shadow register is updated only at the next update event UEV). An example is given in
_Figure 94_ .


**Figure 94. Output compare mode, toggle on OC1**









**17.3.10** **PWM mode**









Pulse Width Modulation mode allows to generate a signal with a frequency determined by
the value of the TIMx_ARR register and a duty cycle determined by the value of the
TIMx_CCRx register.


The PWM mode can be selected independently on each channel (one PWM per OCx
output) by writing ‘110’ (PWM mode 1) or ‘111’ (PWM mode 2) in the OCxM bits in the
TIMx_CCMRx register. The corresponding preload register must be enabled by setting the


RM0091 Rev 10 353/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


OCxPE bit in the TIMx_CCMRx register, and eventually the auto-reload preload register (in
upcounting or center-aligned modes) by setting the ARPE bit in the TIMx_CR1 register.


As the preload registers are transferred to the shadow registers only when an update event
occurs, before starting the counter, all registers must be initialized by setting the UG bit in
the TIMx_EGR register.


OCx polarity is software programmable using the CCxP bit in the TIMx_CCER register. It
can be programmed as active high or active low. OCx output is enabled by a combination of
the CCxE, CCxNE, MOE, OSSI and OSSR bits (TIMx_CCER and TIMx_BDTR registers).
Refer to the TIMx_CCER register description for more details.


In PWM mode (1 or 2), TIMx_CNT and TIMx_CCRx are always compared to determine
whether TIMx_CCRx ≤ TIMx_CNT or TIMx_CNT ≤ TIMx_CCRx (depending on the direction
of the counter).


The timer is able to generate PWM in edge-aligned mode or center-aligned mode
depending on the CMS bits in the TIMx_CR1 register.


**PWM edge-aligned mode**


      - Upcounting configuration


Upcounting is active when the DIR bit in the TIMx_CR1 register is low. Refer to the
_Upcounting mode on page 332_ .


In the following example, we consider PWM mode 1. The reference PWM signal
OCxREF is high as long as TIMx_CNT < TIMx_CCRx else it becomes low. If the
compare value in TIMx_CCRx is greater than the auto-reload value (in TIMx_ARR)
then OCxREF is held at ‘1’. If the compare value is 0 then OCxRef is held at ‘0’.
_Figure 95_ shows some edge-aligned PWM waveforms in an example where
TIMx_ARR=8.


354/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Figure 95. Edge-aligned PWM waveforms (ARR=8)**






|0|1|2|3|4|5|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||
|||||||


|Col1|7|8|0|1|
|---|---|---|---|---|
||7||||
||||||
||||||
||||||





For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.8: Edge-aligned PWM configuration_
_example_ .


- Downcounting configuration


Downcounting is active when DIR bit in TIMx_CR1 register is high. Refer to the
_Downcounting mode on page 336_


In PWM mode 1, the reference signal OCxRef is low as long as
TIMx_CNT > TIMx_CCRx else it becomes high. If the compare value in TIMx_CCRx is
greater than the auto-reload value in TIMx_ARR, then OCxREF is held at ‘1’. 0% PWM
is not possible in this mode.


RM0091 Rev 10 355/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**PWM center-aligned mode**


Center-aligned mode is active when the CMS bits in TIMx_CR1 register are different from
‘00’ (all the remaining configurations having the same effect on the OCxRef/OCx signals).
The compare flag is set when the counter counts up, when it counts down or both when it
counts up and down depending on the CMS bits configuration. The direction bit (DIR) in the
TIMx_CR1 register is updated by hardware and must not be changed by software. Refer to
the _Center-aligned mode (up/down counting) on page 338_ .


_Figure 96_ shows some center-aligned PWM waveforms in an example where:


      - TIMx_ARR=8,


      - PWM mode is the PWM mode 1,


      - The flag is set when the counter counts down corresponding to the center-aligned
mode 1 selected for CMS=01 in TIMx_CR1 register.


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.9: Center-aligned PWM configuration_
_example_ .


**Figure 96. Center-aligned PWM waveforms (ARR=8)**








|Col1|7|8|
|---|---|---|
||||
||||
||||
||||
|CMS=01<br>CMS=10<br>CMS=11|CMS=01<br>CMS=10<br>CMS=11||
|CMS=01<br>CMS=10<br>CMS=11|CMS=01<br>CMS=10<br>CMS=11||





356/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


Hints on using center-aligned mode:


      - When starting in center-aligned mode, the current up-down configuration is used. It
means that the counter counts up or down depending on the value written in the DIR bit
in the TIMx_CR1 register. Moreover, the DIR and CMS bits must not be changed at the
same time by the software.


      - Writing to the counter while running in center-aligned mode is not recommended as it
can lead to unexpected results. In particular:


–
The direction is not updated if a value greater than the auto-reload value is written
in the counter (TIMx_CNT>TIMx_ARR). For example, if the counter was counting
up, it continues to count up.


–
The direction is updated if 0 or the TIMx_ARR value is written in the counter but no
Update Event UEV is generated.


      - The safest way to use center-aligned mode is to generate an update by software
(setting the UG bit in the TIMx_EGR register) just before starting the counter and not to
write the counter while it is running.


**17.3.11** **Complementary outputs and dead-time insertion**


The advanced-control timers (TIM1) can output two complementary signals and manage the
switching-off and the switching-on instants of the outputs.


This time is generally known as dead-time and it has to be adjusted depending on the
devices that are connected to the outputs and their characteristics (intrinsic delays of levelshifters, delays due to power switches...)


The polarity of the outputs (main output OCx or complementary OCxN) can be selected
independently for each output. This is done by writing to the CCxP and CCxNP bits in the
TIMx_CCER register.


The complementary signals OCx and OCxN are activated by a combination of several
control bits: the CCxE and CCxNE bits in the TIMx_CCER register and the MOE, OISx,
OISxN, OSSI and OSSR bits in the TIMx_BDTR and TIMx_CR2 registers. Refer to
_Table 63: Output control bits for complementary OCx and OCxN channels with break_
_feature on page 393_ for more details. In particular, the dead-time is activated when
switching to the IDLE state (MOE falling down to 0).


Dead-time insertion is enabled by setting both CCxE and CCxNE bits, and the MOE bit if the
break circuit is present. There is one 10-bit dead-time generator for each channel. From a
reference waveform OCxREF, it generates 2 outputs OCx and OCxN. If OCx and OCxN are
active high:


      - The OCx output signal is the same as the reference signal except for the rising edge,
which is delayed relative to the reference rising edge.


      - The OCxN output signal is the opposite of the reference signal except for the rising
edge, which is delayed relative to the reference falling edge.


If the delay is greater than the width of the active output (OCx or OCxN) then the
corresponding pulse is not generated.


The following figures show the relationships between the output signals of the dead-time
generator and the reference signal OCxREF. (we suppose CCxP=0, CCxNP=0, MOE=1,
CCxE=1 and CCxNE=1 in these examples)


RM0091 Rev 10 357/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**Figure 97. Complementary output with dead-time insertion.**

|Col1|Col2|Col3|
|---|---|---|
||||
||||
||||
||||



**Figure 98. Dead-time waveforms with delay** **greater than the negative pulse.**


**Figure 99. Dead-time waveforms with delay** **greater than the positive pulse.**


The dead-time delay is the same for each of the channels and is programmable with the
DTG bits in the TIMx_BDTR register. Refer to _Section 17.4.18: TIM1 break and dead-time_
_register (TIM1_BDTR) on page 398_ for delay calculation.


358/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Re-directing OCxREF to OCx or OCxN**


In output mode (forced, output compare or PWM), OCxREF can be re-directed to the OCx
output or to OCxN output by configuring the CCxE and CCxNE bits in the TIMx_CCER
register.


This allows to send a specific waveform (such as PWM or static active level) on one output
while the complementary remains at its inactive level. Other alternative possibilities are to
have both outputs at inactive level or both outputs active and complementary with deadtime.


_Note:_ _When only OCxN is enabled (CCxE=0, CCxNE=1), it is not complemented and becomes_
_active as soon as OCxREF is high. For example, if CCxNP=0 then OCxN=OCxRef. On the_
_other hand, when both OCx and OCxN are enabled (CCxE=CCxNE=1) OCx becomes_
_active when OCxREF is high whereas OCxN is complemented and becomes active when_
_OCxREF is low._


**17.3.12** **Using the break function**


When using the break function, the output enable signals and inactive levels are modified
according to additional control bits (MOE, OSSI and OSSR bits in the TIMx_BDTR register,
OISx and OISxN bits in the TIMx_CR2 register). In any case, the OCx and OCxN outputs
cannot be set both to active level at a given time. Refer to _Table 63: Output control bits for_
_complementary OCx and OCxN channels with break feature on page 393_ for more details.


The source for break (BRK) channel can be an external source connected to the BKIN pin or
one of the following internal sources:


      - the core LOCKUP output


      - the PVD output


      - the SRAM parity error signal


      - a clock failure event generated by the CSS detector


      - the output from a comparator


When exiting from reset, the break circuit is disabled and the MOE bit is low. The break
function can be enabled by setting the BKE bit in the TIMx_BDTR register. The break input
polarity can be selected by configuring the BKP bit in the same register. BKE and BKP can
be modified at the same time. When the BKE and BKP bits are written, a delay of 1 APB
clock cycle is applied before the writing is effective. Consequently, it is necessary to wait 1
APB clock period to correctly read back the bit after the write operation.


Because MOE falling edge can be asynchronous, a resynchronization circuit has been
inserted between the actual signal (acting on the outputs) and the synchronous control bit
(accessed in the TIMx_BDTR register). It results in some delays between the asynchronous
and the synchronous signals. In particular, if MOE is set to 1 whereas it was low, a delay
must be inserted (dummy instruction) before reading it correctly. This is because the write
acts on the asynchronous signal whereas the read reflects the synchronous signal.


RM0091 Rev 10 359/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


When a break occurs (selected level on the break input):


      - The MOE bit is cleared asynchronously, putting the outputs in inactive state, idle state
or in reset state (selected by the OSSI bit). This feature functions even if the MCU
oscillator is off.


      - Each output channel is driven with the level programmed in the OISx bit in the
TIMx_CR2 register as soon as MOE=0. If OSSI=0 then the timer releases the enable
output else the enable output remains high.


      - When complementary outputs are used:


–
The outputs are first put in reset state inactive state (depending on the polarity).
This is done asynchronously so that it works even if no clock is provided to the
timer.


–
If the timer clock is still present, then the dead-time generator is reactivated in
order to drive the outputs with the level programmed in the OISx and OISxN bits
after a dead-time. Even in this case, OCx and OCxN cannot be driven to their
active level together. Note that because of the resynchronization on MOE, the
dead-time duration is a bit longer than usual (around 2 ck_tim clock cycles).


–
If OSSI=0 then the timer releases the enable outputs else the enable outputs
remain or become high as soon as one of the CCxE or CCxNE bits is high.


      - The break status flag (BIF bit in the TIMx_SR register) is set. An interrupt can be
generated if the BIE bit in the TIMx_DIER register is set.


      - If the AOE bit in the TIMx_BDTR register is set, the MOE bit is automatically set again
at the next update event UEV. This can be used to perform a regulation, for instance.
Else, MOE remains low until it is written with 1 again. In this case, it can be used for
security and the break input can be connected to an alarm from power drivers, thermal
sensors or any security components.


_Note:_ _The break inputs is acting on level. Thus, the MOE cannot be set while the break input is_
_active (neither automatically nor by software). In the meantime, the status flag BIF cannot_
_be cleared._


The break can be generated by the BRK input which has a programmable polarity and an
enable bit BKE in the TIMx_BDTR Register.


In addition to the break input and the output management, a write protection has been
implemented inside the break circuit to safeguard the application. It allows to freeze the
configuration of several parameters (dead-time duration, OCx/OCxN polarities and state
when disabled, OCxM configurations, break enable and polarity). The protection can be
selected among 3 levels with the LOCK bits in the TIMx_BDTR register. Refer to
_Section 17.4.18: TIM1 break and dead-time register (TIM1_BDTR) on page 398_ . The LOCK
bits can be written only once after an MCU reset.


The _Figure 100_ shows an example of behavior of the outputs in response to a break.


360/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Figure 100. Output behavior in response to a break**











|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|
|---|---|---|---|---|
||||||
||||||
|OISx=|1)|1)|1)|1)|
|OISx=|1)||||
|OISx=|0)|0)|0)||
|OISx=|1)|1)|1)||
|OISx=|1)||||
|OISx=|0)|0)|0)|0)|
|OISx=|0)||||
|OISx=|0)||||
|delay||delay|delay|delay|
|delay|CxNP=|CxNP=|CxNP=|CxNP=|
|=1, C|=1, C|0, OI|SxN=1)||
|=1, C|=1, C|0, OI|||
||||||
|=1, C<br>~~delay~~|=1, C<br>~~delay~~|1, OI<br>~~delay~~|SxN=1)<br>|~~delay~~|
|=1, C<br>~~delay~~|CxNP=|CxNP=|CxNP=|CxNP=|
|=1, C<br>~~delay~~|CxNP=||||
|||||delay|
|=0, C|CxNP=|0, OI|SxN=1)||
|=0, C|CxNP=||||
|||||delay|
|=0, C|CxNP=|0, OI|SxN=0)||
|=0, C|CxNP=||||
||||||


RM0091 Rev 10 361/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**17.3.13** **Clearing the OCxREF signal on an external event**


The OCxREF signal of a given channel can be cleared when a high level is applied on the
OCREF_CLR_INPUT (OCxCE enable bit in the corresponding TIMx_CCMRx register set to
1). OCxREF remains low until the next update event (UEV) occurs. This function can only
be used in Output compare and PWM modes. It does not work in Forced mode.


OCREF_CLR_INPUT can be selected between the OCREF_CLR input and ETRF (ETR
after the filter) by configuring the OCCS bit in the TIMx_SMCR register.


When ETRF is chosen, ETR must be configured as follows:


The OCxREF signal for a given channel can be driven Low by applying a High level to the
ETRF input (OCxCE enable bit of the corresponding TIMx_CCMRx register set to ‘1’). The
OCxREF signal remains Low until the next update event, UEV, occurs.


This function can only be used in output compare and PWM modes, and does not work in
forced mode.


For example, the OCxREF signal can be connected to the output of a comparator to be
used for current handling. In this case, the ETR must be configured as follow:


1. The External Trigger Prescaler should be kept off: bits ETPS[1:0] of the TIMx_SMCR
register set to ‘00’.


2. The external clock mode 2 must be disabled: bit ECE of the TIMx_SMCR register set to
‘0’.


3. The External Trigger Polarity (ETP) and the External Trigger Filter (ETF) can be
configured according to the user needs.


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.10: ETR configuration to clear OCxREF_
_code example_ .


_Figure 101_ shows the behavior of the OCxREF signal when the ETRF Input becomes High,
for both values of the enable bit OCxCE. In this example, the timer TIMx is programmed in
PWM mode.


362/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Figure 101. Clearing TIMx OCxREF**





_Note:_ _In case of a PWM with a 100% duty cycle (if CCRx>ARR), then OCxREF is enabled again at_
_the next counter overflow._


RM0091 Rev 10 363/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**17.3.14** **6-step PWM generation**


When complementary outputs are used on a channel, preload bits are available on the
OCxM, CCxE and CCxNE bits. The preload bits are transferred to the shadow bits at the
COM commutation event. Thus one can program in advance the configuration for the next
step and change the configuration of all the channels at the same time. COM can be
generated by software by setting the COM bit in the TIMx_EGR register or by hardware (on
TRGI rising edge).


A flag is set when the COM event occurs (COMIF bit in the TIMx_SR register), which can
generate an interrupt (if the COMIE bit is set in the TIMx_DIER register) or a DMA request
(if the COMDE bit is set in the TIMx_DIER register).


The _Figure 102_ describes the behavior of the OCx and OCxN outputs when a COM event
occurs, in 3 different examples of programmed configurations.


**Figure 102. 6-step** **generation, COM example (OSSR=1)**


364/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**17.3.15** **One-pulse mode**


One-pulse mode (OPM) is a particular case of the previous modes. It allows the counter to
be started in response to a stimulus and to generate a pulse with a programmable length
after a programmable delay.


Starting the counter can be controlled through the slave mode controller. Generating the
waveform can be done in output compare mode or PWM mode. One-pulse mode is selected
by setting the OPM bit in the TIMx_CR1 register. This makes the counter stop automatically
at the next update event UEV.


A pulse can be correctly generated only if the compare value is different from the counter
initial value. Before starting (when the timer is waiting for the trigger), the configuration must
be:


      - In upcounting: CNT < CCRx ≤ ARR (in particular, 0 < CCRx)


      - In downcounting: CNT > CCRx


**Figure 103. Example of one pulse mode**


|Col1|Col2|Col3|
|---|---|---|
||||
||||
||||
||||







For example one may want to generate a positive pulse on OC1 with a length of t PULSE and
after a delay of t DELAY as soon as a positive edge is detected on the TI2 input pin.


Let’s use TI2FP2 as trigger 1:


- Map TI2FP2 to TI2 by writing CC2S=’01’ in the TIMx_CCMR1 register.


- TI2FP2 must detect a rising edge, write CC2P=’0’ and CC2NP=’0’ in the TIMx_CCER
register.


- Configure TI2FP2 as trigger for the slave mode controller (TRGI) by writing TS=’110’ in
the TIMx_SMCR register.


- TI2FP2 is used to start the counter by writing SMS to ‘110’ in the TIMx_SMCR register
(trigger mode).


RM0091 Rev 10 365/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


The OPM waveform is defined by writing the compare registers (taking into account the
clock frequency and the counter prescaler).


      - The t DELAY is defined by the value written in the TIMx_CCR1 register.


      - The t PULSE is defined by the difference between the auto-reload value and the compare
value (TIMx_ARR - TIMx_CCR1+1).


      - Let’s say one want to build a waveform with a transition from ‘0’ to ‘1’ when a compare
match occurs and a transition from ‘1’ to ‘0’ when the counter reaches the auto-reload
value. To do this PWM mode 2 must be enabled by writing OC1M=111 in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register. Optionally the preload registers can be enabled by writing
OC1PE=’1’ in the TIMx_CCMR1 register and ARPE in the TIMx_CR1 register. In this
case one has to write the compare value in the TIMx_CCR1 register, the auto-reload
value in the TIMx_ARR register, generate an update by setting the UG bit and wait for
external trigger event on TI2. CC1P is written to ‘0’ in this example.


In our example, the DIR and CMS bits in the TIMx_CR1 register should be low.


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.16: One-Pulse mode code example_ .


Since only 1 pulse (Single mode) is needed, a 1 must be written in the OPM bit in the
TIMx_CR1 register to stop the counter at the next update event (when the counter rolls over
from the auto-reload value back to 0). When OPM bit in the TIMx_CR1 register is set to '0',
so the Repetitive Mode is selected.


**Particular case: OCx fast enable**


In One-pulse mode, the edge detection on TIx input set the CEN bit which enables the
counter. Then the comparison between the counter and the compare value makes the
output toggle. But several clock cycles are needed for these operations and it limits the
minimum delay t DELAY min we can get.


If one wants to output a waveform with the minimum delay, the OCxFE bit can be set in the
TIMx_CCMRx register. Then OCxRef (and OCx) are forced in response to the stimulus,
without taking in account the comparison. Its new level is the same as if a compare match
had occurred. OCxFE acts only if the channel is configured in PWM1 or PWM2 mode.


For code example refer to the part of code, conditioned by PULSE_WITHOUT_DELAY > 0
in the Appendix section _A.9.16: One-Pulse mode code example_ .


**17.3.16** **Encoder interface mode**


To select Encoder Interface mode write SMS=‘001’ in the TIMx_SMCR register if the
counter is counting on TI2 edges only, SMS=’010’ if it is counting on TI1 edges only and
SMS=’011’ if it is counting on both TI1 and TI2 edges.


Select the TI1 and TI2 polarity by programming the CC1P and CC2P bits in the TIMx_CCER
register. When needed, the input filter can be programmed as well. CC1NP and CC2NP
must be kept low.


The two inputs TI1 and TI2 are used to interface to an incremental encoder. Refer to
_Table 61_ . The counter is clocked by each valid transition on TI1FP1 or TI2FP2 (TI1 and TI2
after input filter and polarity selection, TI1FP1=TI1 if not filtered and not inverted,
TI2FP2=TI2 if not filtered and not inverted) assuming that it is enabled (CEN bit in
TIMx_CR1 register written to ‘1’). The sequence of transitions of the two inputs is evaluated
and generates count pulses as well as the direction signal. Depending on the sequence the
counter counts up or down, the DIR bit in the TIMx_CR1 register is modified by hardware


366/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


accordingly. The DIR bit is calculated at each transition on any input (TI1 or TI2), whatever
the counter is counting on TI1 only, TI2 only or both TI1 and TI2.


Encoder interface mode acts simply as an external clock with direction selection. This
means that the counter just counts continuously between 0 and the auto-reload value in the
TIMx_ARR register (0 to ARR or ARR down to 0 depending on the direction). So the
TIMx_ARR must be configured before starting. In the same way, the capture, compare,
prescaler, repetition counter, trigger output features continue to work as normal. Encoder
mode and External clock mode 2 are not compatible and must not be selected together.


In this mode, the counter is modified automatically following the speed and the direction of
the incremental encoder and its content, therefore, always represents the encoder’s
position. The count direction correspond to the rotation direction of the connected sensor.
The table summarizes the possible combinations, assuming TI1 and TI2 do not switch at the
same time.


**Table 61. Counting direction versus encoder signals**










|Active edge|Level on<br>opposite<br>signal (TI1FP1<br>for TI2,<br>TI2FP2 for<br>TI1)|TI1FP1 signal|Col4|TI2FP2 signal|Col6|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**Active edge**|**Level on**<br>**opposite**<br>**signal (TI1FP1**<br>**for TI2,**<br>**TI2FP2 for**<br>**TI1)**|**Rising**|**Falling**|**Rising**|**Falling**|
|Counting on<br>TI1 only|High|Down|Up|No Count|No Count|
|Counting on<br>TI1 only|Low|Up|Down|No Count|No Count|
|Counting on<br>TI2 only|High|No Count|No Count|Up|Down|
|Counting on<br>TI2 only|Low|No Count|No Count|Down|Up|
|Counting on<br>TI1 and TI2|High|Down|Up|Up|Down|
|Counting on<br>TI1 and TI2|Low|Up|Down|Down|Up|



An external incremental encoder can be connected directly to the MCU without external
interface logic. However, comparators are normally be used to convert the encoder’s
differential outputs to digital signals. This greatly increases noise immunity. The third
encoder output which indicate the mechanical zero position, may be connected to an
external interrupt input and trigger a counter reset.


_Figure 104_ gives an example of counter operation, showing count signal generation and
direction control. It also shows how input jitter is compensated where both edges are
selected. This might occur if the sensor is positioned near to one of the switching points. For
this example we assume that the configuration is the following:


- CC1S=’01’ (TIMx_CCMR1 register, TI1FP1 mapped on TI1).


- CC2S=’01’ (TIMx_CCMR2 register, TI1FP2 mapped on TI2).


- CC1P=’0’ (TIMx_CCER register, TI1FP1 non-inverted, TI1FP1=TI1).


- CC2P=’0’ (TIMx_CCER register, TI1FP2 non-inverted, TI1FP2= TI2).


- SMS=’011’ (TIMx_SMCR register, both inputs are active on both rising and falling
edges).


- CEN=’1’ (TIMx_CR1 register, Counter enabled).


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.11: Encoder interface code example_ .


RM0091 Rev 10 367/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**Figure 104. Example of counter operation in encoder interface mode.**





_Figure 105_ gives an example of counter behavior when TI1FP1 polarity is inverted (same
configuration as above except CC1P=’1’).


**Figure 105. Example of encoder interface mode with TI1FP1 polarity inverted.**







The timer, when configured in Encoder Interface mode provides information on the sensor’s
current position. Dynamic information can be obtained (speed, acceleration, deceleration)
by measuring the period between two encoder events using a second timer configured in
capture mode. The output of the encoder which indicates the mechanical zero can be used
for this purpose. Depending on the time between two events, the counter can also be read
at regular times. This can be done by latching the counter value into a third input capture
register if available (then the capture signal must be periodic and can be generated by
another timer). when available, it is also possible to read its value through a DMA request
generated by a real-time clock.


368/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**17.3.17** **Timer input XOR function**


The TI1S bit in the TIMx_CR2 register, allows the input filter of channel 1 to be connected to
the output of a XOR gate, combining the three input pins TIMx_CH1, TIMx_CH2 and
TIMx_CH3.


The XOR output can be used with all the timer input functions such as trigger or input
capture. An example of this feature used to interface Hall sensors is given in
_Section 17.3.18_ below.


**17.3.18** **Interfacing with Hall sensors**


This is done using the advanced-control timers (TIM1) to generate PWM signals to drive the
motor and another timer TIMx (TIM2 or TIM3) referred to as “interfacing timer” in _Figure 106_ .
The “interfacing timer” captures the 3 timer input pins (CC1, CC2, CC3) connected through
a XOR to the TI1 input channel (selected by setting the TI1S bit in the TIMx_CR2 register).


The slave mode controller is configured in reset mode; the slave input is TI1F_ED. Thus,
each time one of the 3 inputs toggles, the counter restarts counting from 0. This creates a
time base triggered by any change on the Hall inputs.


On the “interfacing timer”, capture/compare channel 1 is configured in capture mode,
capture signal is TRC (See _Figure 89: Capture/compare channel (example: channel 1 input_
_stage) on page 348_ ). The captured value, which corresponds to the time elapsed between 2
changes on the inputs, gives information about motor speed.


The “interfacing timer” can be used in output mode to generate a pulse which changes the
configuration of the channels of the advanced-control timer (TIM1) (by triggering a COM
event). The TIM1 timer is used to generate PWM signals to drive the motor. To do this, the
interfacing timer channel must be programmed so that a positive pulse is generated after a
programmed delay (in output compare or PWM mode). This pulse is sent to the advancedcontrol timer (TIM1) through the TRGO output.


Example: one wants to change the PWM configuration of the advanced-control timer TIM1
after a programmed delay each time a change occurs on the Hall inputs connected to one of
the TIMx timers.


      - Configure 3 timer inputs XORed to the TI1 input channel by writing the TI1S bit in the
TIMx_CR2 register to ‘1’,


      - Program the time base: write the TIMx_ARR to the max value (the counter must be
cleared by the TI1 change. Set the prescaler to get a maximum counter period longer
than the time between 2 changes on the sensors,


      - Program channel 1 in capture mode (TRC selected): write the CC1S bits in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register to ‘01’. The digital filter can also be programmed if needed,


      - Program channel 2 in PWM 2 mode with the desired delay: write the OC2M bits to ‘111’
and the CC2S bits to ‘00’ in the TIMx_CCMR1 register,


      - Select OC2REF as trigger output on TRGO: write the MMS bits in the TIMx_CR2
register to ‘101’,


In the advanced-control timer TIM1, the right ITR input must be selected as trigger input, the
timer is programmed to generate PWM signals, the capture/compare control signals are
preloaded (CCPC=1 in the TIMx_CR2 register) and the COM event is controlled by the
trigger input (CCUS=1 in the TIMx_CR2 register). The PWM control bits (CCxE, OCxM) are
written after a COM event for the next step (this can be done in an interrupt subroutine
generated by the rising edge of OC2REF).


RM0091 Rev 10 369/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


_Figure 106_ describes this example.


**Figure 106. Example of hall sensor interface**


370/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**17.3.19** **TIMx and external trigger synchronization**


The TIMx timer can be synchronized with an external trigger in several modes: Reset mode,
Gated mode and Trigger mode.


**Slave mode: Reset mode**


The counter and its prescaler can be reinitialized in response to an event on a trigger input.
Moreover, if the URS bit from the TIMx_CR1 register is low, an update event UEV is
generated. Then all the preloaded registers (TIMx_ARR, TIMx_CCRx) are updated.


In the following example, the upcounter is cleared in response to a rising edge on TI1 input:


      - Configure the channel 1 to detect rising edges on TI1. Configure the input filter duration
(in this example, we do not need any filter, so we keep IC1F=0000). The capture
prescaler is not used for triggering, so it does not need to be configured. The CC1S bits
select the input capture source only, CC1S = 01 in the TIMx_CCMR1 register. Write
CC1P=0 and CC1NP=’0’ in TIMx_CCER register to validate the polarity (and detect
rising edges only).


      - Configure the timer in reset mode by writing SMS=100 in TIMx_SMCR register. Select
TI1 as the input source by writing TS=101 in TIMx_SMCR register.


      - Start the counter by writing CEN=1 in the TIMx_CR1 register.


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.12: Reset mode code example_ .


The counter starts counting on the internal clock, then behaves normally until TI1 rising
edge. When TI1 rises, the counter is cleared and restarts from 0. In the meantime, the
trigger flag is set (TIF bit in the TIMx_SR register) and an interrupt request, or a DMA
request can be sent if enabled (depending on the TIE and TDE bits in TIMx_DIER register).


The following figure shows this behavior when the auto-reload register TIMx_ARR=0x36.
The delay between the rising edge on TI1 and the actual reset of the counter is due to the
resynchronization circuit on TI1 input.


**Figure 107. Control circuit in reset mode**









RM0091 Rev 10 371/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**Slave mode: Gated mode**


The counter can be enabled depending on the level of a selected input.


In the following example, the upcounter counts only when TI1 input is low:


      - Configure the channel 1 to detect low levels on TI1. Configure the input filter duration
(in this example, we do not need any filter, so we keep IC1F=0000). The capture
prescaler is not used for triggering, so it does not need to be configured. The CC1S bits
select the input capture source only, CC1S=01 in TIMx_CCMR1 register. Write
CC1P=1 and CC1NP=’0’ in TIMx_CCER register to validate the polarity (and detect
low level only).


      - Configure the timer in gated mode by writing SMS=101 in TIMx_SMCR register. Select
TI1 as the input source by writing TS=101 in TIMx_SMCR register.


      - Enable the counter by writing CEN=1 in the TIMx_CR1 register (in gated mode, the
counter doesn’t start if CEN=0, whatever is the trigger input level).


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.13: Gated mode code example_ .


The counter starts counting on the internal clock as long as TI1 is low and stops as soon as
TI1 becomes high. The TIF flag in the TIMx_SR register is set both when the counter starts
or stops.


The delay between the rising edge on TI1 and the actual stop of the counter is due to the
resynchronization circuit on TI1 input.


**Figure 108. Control circuit in gated mode**


372/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Slave mode: Trigger mode**


The counter can start in response to an event on a selected input.


In the following example, the upcounter starts in response to a rising edge on TI2 input:


      - Configure the channel 2 to detect rising edges on TI2. Configure the input filter duration
(in this example, we do not need any filter, so we keep IC2F=0000). The capture
prescaler is not used for triggering, so it does not need to be configured. The CC2S bits
are configured to select the input capture source only, CC2S=01 in TIMx_CCMR1
register. Write CC2P=1 and CC2NP=0 in TIMx_CCER register to validate the polarity
(and detect low level only).


      - Configure the timer in trigger mode by writing SMS=110 in TIMx_SMCR register. Select
TI2 as the input source by writing TS=110 in TIMx_SMCR register.


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.14: Trigger mode code example_ .


When a rising edge occurs on TI2, the counter starts counting on the internal clock and the
TIF flag is set.


The delay between the rising edge on TI2 and the actual start of the counter is due to the
resynchronization circuit on TI2 input.


**Figure 109. Control circuit in trigger mode**


**Slave mode: external clock mode 2 + trigger mode**


The external clock mode 2 can be used in addition to another slave mode (except external
clock mode 1 and encoder mode). In this case, the ETR signal is used as external clock
input, and another input can be selected as trigger input (in reset mode, gated mode or
trigger mode). It is recommended not to select ETR as TRGI through the TS bits of
TIMx_SMCR register.


In the following example, the upcounter is incremented at each rising edge of the ETR
signal as soon as a rising edge of TI1 occurs:


1. Configure the external trigger input circuit by programming the TIMx_SMCR register as
follows:


– ETF = 0000: no filter


–
ETPS=00: prescaler disabled


–
ETP=0: detection of rising edges on ETR and ECE=1 to enable the external clock
mode 2.


RM0091 Rev 10 373/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


2. Configure the channel 1 as follows, to detect rising edges on TI:


– IC1F=0000: no filter.


–
The capture prescaler is not used for triggering and does not need to be
configured.


–
CC1S=01in TIMx_CCMR1 register to select only the input capture source


–
CC1P=0 and CC1NP=’0’ in TIMx_CCER register to validate the polarity (and
detect rising edge only).


3. Configure the timer in trigger mode by writing SMS=110 in TIMx_SMCR register. Select
TI1 as the input source by writing TS=101 in TIMx_SMCR register.


For code example refer to the Appendix section _A.9.15: External clock mode 2 + trigger_
_mode code example_ .


A rising edge on TI1 enables the counter and sets the TIF flag. The counter then counts on
ETR rising edges.


The delay between the rising edge of the ETR signal and the actual reset of the counter is
due to the resynchronization circuit on ETRP input.


**Figure 110. Control circuit in external clock mode 2 + trigger mode**



**17.3.20** **Timer synchronization**




|Col1|Col2|
|---|---|
|||
|||
|||





The TIM timers are linked together internally for timer synchronization or chaining. Refer to
_Section 18.3.15: Timer synchronization on page 439_ for details.


**17.3.21** **Debug mode**


When the microcontroller enters debug mode (Cortex™-M0 core halted), the TIMx counter
either continues to work normally or stops, depending on DBG_TIMx_STOP configuration
bit in DBG module.


374/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**

## **17.4 TIM1 registers**


Refer to _Section 1.2 on page 42_ for a list of abbreviations used in register descriptions.


**17.4.1** **TIM1 control register 1 (TIM1_CR1)**


Address offset: 0x00


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9 8|Col8|7|6 5|Col11|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|CKD[1:0]|CKD[1:0]|ARPE|CMS[1:0]|CMS[1:0]|DIR|OPM|URS|UDIS|CEN|
|||||||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:10 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 9:8 **CKD[1:0]** : Clock division

This bit-field indicates the division ratio between the timer clock (CK_INT) frequency and the
dead-time and sampling clock (t DTS )used by the dead-time generators and the digital filters
(ETR, TIx),


00: t DTS =t CK_INT
01: t DTS =2*t CK_INT
10: t DTS =4*t CK_INT
11: Reserved, do not program this value


Bit 7 **ARPE** : Auto-reload preload enable


0: TIMx_ARR register is not buffered
1: TIMx_ARR register is buffered


Bits 6:5 **CMS[1:0]** : Center-aligned mode selection


00: Edge-aligned mode. The counter counts up or down depending on the direction bit
(DIR).
01: Center-aligned mode 1. The counter counts up and down alternatively. Output compare
interrupt flags of channels configured in output (CCxS=00 in TIMx_CCMRx register) are set
only when the counter is counting down.
10: Center-aligned mode 2. The counter counts up and down alternatively. Output compare
interrupt flags of channels configured in output (CCxS=00 in TIMx_CCMRx register) are set
only when the counter is counting up.
11: Center-aligned mode 3. The counter counts up and down alternatively. Output compare
interrupt flags of channels configured in output (CCxS=00 in TIMx_CCMRx register) are set
both when the counter is counting up or down.

_Note: It is not allowed to switch from edge-aligned mode to center-aligned mode as long as_
_the counter is enabled (CEN=1)._


Bit 4 **DIR** : Direction


0: Counter used as upcounter
1: Counter used as downcounter

_Note: This bit is read only when the timer is configured in Center-aligned mode or Encoder_
_mode._


Bit 3 **OPM** : One pulse mode


0: Counter is not stopped at update event
1: Counter stops counting at the next update event (clearing the bit CEN)


RM0091 Rev 10 375/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


Bit 2 **URS** : Update request source

This bit is set and cleared by software to select the UEV event sources.


0: Any of the following events generate an update interrupt or DMA request if enabled.
These events can be:

– Counter overflow/underflow

–
Setting the UG bit

–
Update generation through the slave mode controller


1: Only counter overflow/underflow generates an update interrupt or DMA request if
enabled.


Bit 1 **UDIS** : Update disable

This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable UEV event generation.


0: UEV enabled. The Update (UEV) event is generated by one of the following events:

– Counter overflow/underflow

–
Setting the UG bit

–
Update generation through the slave mode controller


Buffered registers are then loaded with their preload values.


1: UEV disabled. The Update event is not generated, shadow registers keep their value
(ARR, PSC, CCRx). However the counter and the prescaler are reinitialized if the UG bit is
set or if a hardware reset is received from the slave mode controller.


Bit 0 **CEN** : Counter enable


0: Counter disabled

1: Counter enabled

_Note: External clock, gated mode and encoder mode can work only if the CEN bit has been_
_previously set by software. However trigger mode can set the CEN bit automatically by_
_hardware._


**17.4.2** **TIM1 control register 2 (TIM1_CR2)**


Address offset: 0x04


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6 5 4|Col11|Col12|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|OIS4|OIS3N|OIS3|OIS2N|OIS2|OIS1N|OIS1|TI1S|MMS[2:0]|MMS[2:0]|MMS[2:0]|CCDS|CCUS|Res.|CCPC|
||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw||rw|



Bit 15 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 14 **OIS4** : Output Idle state 4 (OC4 output)


refer to OIS1 bit


Bit 13 **OIS3N** : Output Idle state 3 (OC3N output)


refer to OIS1N bit


Bit 12 **OIS3** : Output Idle state 3 (OC3 output)


refer to OIS1 bit


Bit 11 **OIS2N** : Output Idle state 2 (OC2N output)


refer to OIS1N bit


Bit 10 **OIS2** : Output Idle state 2 (OC2 output)


refer to OIS1 bit


376/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


Bit 9 **OIS1N** : Output Idle state 1 (OC1N output)


0: OC1N=0 after a dead-time when MOE=0

1: OC1N=1 after a dead-time when MOE=0

_Note: This bit cannot be modified as long as LOCK level 1, 2 or 3 has been programmed_
_(LOCK bits in TIMx_BDTR register)._


Bit 8 **OIS1** : Output Idle state 1 (OC1 output)


0: OC1=0 (after a dead-time if OC1N is implemented) when MOE=0
1: OC1=1 (after a dead-time if OC1N is implemented) when MOE=0

_Note: This bit cannot be modified as long as LOCK level 1, 2 or 3 has been programmed_
_(LOCK bits in TIMx_BDTR register)._


Bit 7 **TI1S** : TI1 selection


0: The TIMx_CH1 pin is connected to TI1 input
1: The TIMx_CH1, CH2 and CH3 pins are connected to the TI1 input (XOR combination)


Bits 6:4 **MMS[2:0]** : Master mode selection

These bits allow to select the information to be sent in master mode to slave timers for

synchronization (TRGO). The combination is as follows:


000: **Reset**            - the UG bit from the TIMx_EGR register is used as trigger output (TRGO). If the
reset is generated by the trigger input (slave mode controller configured in reset mode) then
the signal on TRGO is delayed compared to the actual reset.
001: **Enable**            - the Counter Enable signal CNT_EN is used as trigger output (TRGO). It is
useful to start several timers at the same time or to control a window in which a slave timer is

enable. The Counter Enable signal is generated by a logic OR between CEN control bit and
the trigger input when configured in gated mode. When the Counter Enable signal is
controlled by the trigger input, there is a delay on TRGO, except if the master/slave mode is
selected (see the MSM bit description in TIMx_SMCR register).
010: **Update**            - The update event is selected as trigger output (TRGO). For instance a master
timer can then be used as a prescaler for a slave timer.
011: **Compare Pulse**             - The trigger output send a positive pulse when the CC1IF flag is to be
set (even if it was already high), as soon as a capture or a compare match occurred.
(TRGO).
100: **Compare**            - OC1REF signal is used as trigger output (TRGO)
101: **Compare**            - OC2REF signal is used as trigger output (TRGO)
110: **Compare**             - OC3REF signal is used as trigger output (TRGO)
111: **Compare**             - OC4REF signal is used as trigger output (TRGO)


Bit 3 **CCDS** : Capture/compare DMA selection


0: CCx DMA request sent when CCx event occurs
1: CCx DMA requests sent when update event occurs


Bit 2 **CCUS** : Capture/compare control update selection


0: When capture/compare control bits are preloaded (CCPC=1), they are updated by setting
the COMG bit only
1: When capture/compare control bits are preloaded (CCPC=1), they are updated by setting
the COMG bit or when an rising edge occurs on TRGI

_Note: This bit acts only on channels that have a complementary output._


Bit 1 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 0 **CCPC** : Capture/compare preloaded control


0: CCxE, CCxNE and OCxM bits are not preloaded
1: CCxE, CCxNE and OCxM bits are preloaded, after having been written, they are updated
only when a communication event (COM) occurs (COMG bit set or rising edge detected on
TRGI, depending on the CCUS bit).

_Note: This bit acts only on channels that have a complementary output._


RM0091 Rev 10 377/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**17.4.3** **TIM1 slave mode control register (TIM1_SMCR)**


Address offset: 0x08


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13 12|Col4|11 10 9 8|Col6|Col7|Col8|7|6 5 4|Col11|Col12|3|2 1 0|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|ETP|ECE|ETPS[1:0]|ETPS[1:0]|ETF[3:0]|ETF[3:0]|ETF[3:0]|ETF[3:0]|MSM|TS[2:0]|TS[2:0]|TS[2:0]|OCCS|SMS[2:0]|SMS[2:0]|SMS[2:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bit 15 **ETP** : External trigger polarity

This bit selects whether ETR or ETR is used for trigger operations


0: ETR is non-inverted, active at high level or rising edge.
1: ETR is inverted, active at low level or falling edge.


Bit 14 **ECE** : External clock enable

This bit enables External clock mode 2.


0: External clock mode 2 disabled

1: External clock mode 2 enabled. The counter is clocked by any active edge on the ETRF
signal.

_Note:_ _**1:**_ _Setting the ECE bit has the same effect as selecting external clock mode 1 with_
_TRGI connected to ETRF (SMS=111 and TS=111)._

_**2:**_ _It is possible to simultaneously use external clock mode 2 with the following slave_
_modes: reset mode, gated mode and trigger mode. Nevertheless, TRGI must not be_
_connected to ETRF in this case (TS bits must not be 111)._
_**3:**_ _If external clock mode 1 and external clock mode 2 are enabled at the same time,_
_the external clock input is ETRF._


Bits 13:12 **ETPS[1:0]** : External trigger prescaler

External trigger signal ETRP frequency must be at most 1/4 of TIMxCLK frequency. A
prescaler can be enabled to reduce ETRP frequency. It is useful when inputting fast external
clocks.


00: Prescaler OFF

01: ETRP frequency divided by 2
10: ETRP frequency divided by 4
11: ETRP frequency divided by 8


378/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


Bits 11:8 **ETF[3:0]** : External trigger filter

This bit-field then defines the frequency used to sample ETRP signal and the length of the
digital filter applied to ETRP. The digital filter is made of an event counter in which N
consecutive events are needed to validate a transition on the output:


0000: No filter, sampling is done at f DTS
0001: f SAMPLING = f CK_INT, N = 2
0010: f SAMPLING = f CK_INT, N = 4
0011: f SAMPLING = f CK_INT, N = 8
0100: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 2, N = 6
0101: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 2, N = 8
0110: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 4, N = 6
0111: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 4, N = 8
1000: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 8, N = 6
1001: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 8, N = 8
1010: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 16, N = 5
1011: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 16, N = 6
1100: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 16, N = 8
1101: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 32, N = 5
1110: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 32, N = 6
1111: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 32, N = 8


_Note: Care must be taken that f_ _DTS_ _is replaced in the formula by CK_INT when ETF[3:0] = 1,_
_2 or 3._


Bit 7 **MSM:** Master/slave mode


0: No action

1: The effect of an event on the trigger input (TRGI) is delayed to allow a perfect
synchronization between the current timer and its slaves (through TRGO). It is useful if we
want to synchronize several timers on a single external event.


RM0091 Rev 10 379/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


Bits 6:4 **TS[2:0]:** Trigger selection

This bit-field selects the trigger input to be used to synchronize the counter.


000: Internal Trigger 0 (ITR0)
001: Internal Trigger 1 (ITR1)
010: Internal Trigger 2 (ITR2)
011: Internal Trigger 3 (ITR3)
100: TI1 Edge Detector (TI1F_ED)
101: Filtered Timer Input 1 (TI1FP1)
110: Filtered Timer Input 2 (TI2FP2)
111: External Trigger input (ETRF)


See _Table 62: TIMx Internal trigger connection on page 380_ for more details on ITRx meaning
for each Timer.

_Note: These bits must be changed only when they are not used (e.g. when SMS=000) to_
_avoid wrong edge detections at the transition._


Bit 3 **OCCS:** OCREF clear selection.

This bit is used to select the OCREF clear source.

0:OCREF_CLR_INT is connected to the OCREF_CLR input
1: OCREF_CLR_INT is connected to ETRF


Bits 2:0 **SMS[2:0]:** Slave mode selection

When external signals are selected the active edge of the trigger signal (TRGI) is linked to the
polarity selected on the external input (see Input Control register and Control Register
description.


000: Slave mode disabled - if CEN = ‘1’ then the prescaler is clocked directly by the internal
clock.

001: Encoder mode 1 - Counter counts up/down on TI1FP1 edge depending on TI2FP2
level.

010: Encoder mode 2 - Counter counts up/down on TI2FP2 edge depending on TI1FP1
level.

011: Encoder mode 3 - Counter counts up/down on both TI1FP1 and TI2FP2 edges
depending on the level of the other input.
100: Reset Mode - Rising edge of the selected trigger input (TRGI) reinitializes the counter
and generates an update of the registers.
101: Gated Mode - The counter clock is enabled when the trigger input (TRGI) is high. The
counter stops (but is not reset) as soon as the trigger becomes low. Both start and stop of
the counter are controlled.

110: Trigger Mode - The counter starts at a rising edge of the trigger TRGI (but it is not
reset). Only the start of the counter is controlled.
111: External Clock Mode 1 - Rising edges of the selected trigger (TRGI) clock the counter.

_Note: The gated mode must not be used if TI1F_ED is selected as the trigger input_
_(TS=’100’). Indeed, TI1F_ED outputs 1 pulse for each transition on TI1F, whereas the_
_gated mode checks the level of the trigger signal._

_Note: The clock of the slave timer must be enabled prior to receive events from the master_
_timer, and must not be changed on-the-fly while triggers are received from the master_
_timer._


**Table 62. TIMx Internal trigger connection**

|Slave TIM|ITR0 (TS = 000)|ITR1 (TS = 001)|ITR2 (TS = 010)|ITR3 (TS = 011)|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|TIM1|TIM15|TIM2|TIM3|TIM17|



380/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**17.4.4** **TIM1 DMA/interrupt enable register (TIM1_DIER)**


Address offset: 0x0C


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|TDE|COM<br>DE|CC4DE|CC3DE|CC2DE|CC1DE|UDE|BIE|TIE|COMIE|CC4IE|CC3IE|CC2IE|CC1IE|UIE|
||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bit 15 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 14 **TDE** : Trigger DMA request enable


0: Trigger DMA request disabled
1: Trigger DMA request enabled


Bit 13 **COMDE** : COM DMA request enable


0: COM DMA request disabled
1: COM DMA request enabled


Bit 12 **CC4DE** : Capture/Compare 4 DMA request enable


0: CC4 DMA request disabled
1: CC4 DMA request enabled


Bit 11 **CC3DE** : Capture/Compare 3 DMA request enable


0: CC3 DMA request disabled
1: CC3 DMA request enabled


Bit 10 **CC2DE** : Capture/Compare 2 DMA request enable


0: CC2 DMA request disabled
1: CC2 DMA request enabled


Bit 9 **CC1DE** : Capture/Compare 1 DMA request enable


0: CC1 DMA request disabled
1: CC1 DMA request enabled


Bit 8 **UDE** : Update DMA request enable


0: Update DMA request disabled
1: Update DMA request enabled


Bit 7 **BIE** : Break interrupt enable


0: Break interrupt disabled
1: Break interrupt enabled


Bit 6 **TIE** : Trigger interrupt enable


0: Trigger interrupt disabled
1: Trigger interrupt enabled


Bit 5 **COMIE** : COM interrupt enable


0: COM interrupt disabled
1: COM interrupt enabled


Bit 4 **CC4IE** : Capture/Compare 4 interrupt enable


0: CC4 interrupt disabled
1: CC4 interrupt enabled


RM0091 Rev 10 381/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


Bit 3 **CC3IE** : Capture/Compare 3 interrupt enable


0: CC3 interrupt disabled
1: CC3 interrupt enabled


Bit 2 **CC2IE** : Capture/Compare 2 interrupt enable


0: CC2 interrupt disabled
1: CC2 interrupt enabled


Bit 1 **CC1IE** : Capture/Compare 1 interrupt enable


0: CC1 interrupt disabled
1: CC1 interrupt enabled


Bit 0 **UIE** : Update interrupt enable


0: Update interrupt disabled
1: Update interrupt enabled


382/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**17.4.5** **TIM1 status register (TIM1_SR)**


Address offset: 0x10


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|CC4OF|CC3OF|CC2OF|CC1OF|Res.|BIF|TIF|COMIF|CC4IF|CC3IF|CC2IF|CC1IF|UIF|
||||rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0||rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0|



Bits 15:13 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 12 **CC4OF** : Capture/Compare 4 overcapture flag


refer to CC1OF description


Bit 11 **CC3OF** : Capture/Compare 3 overcapture flag


refer to CC1OF description


Bit 10 **CC2OF** : Capture/Compare 2 overcapture flag


refer to CC1OF description


Bit 9 **CC1OF** : Capture/Compare 1 overcapture flag

This flag is set by hardware only when the corresponding channel is configured in input
capture mode. It is cleared by software by writing it to ‘0’.


0: No overcapture has been detected.
1: The counter value has been captured in TIMx_CCR1 register while CC1IF flag was
already set


Bit 8 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 7 **BIF** : Break interrupt flag

This flag is set by hardware as soon as the break input goes active. It can be cleared by
software if the break input is not active.


0: No break event occurred.

1: An active level has been detected on the break input.


Bit 6 **TIF** : Trigger interrupt flag

This flag is set by hardware on trigger event (active edge detected on TRGI input when the
slave mode controller is enabled in all modes but gated mode.It is cleared by software.


0: No trigger event occurred.
1: Trigger interrupt pending.


Bit 5 **COMIF** : COM interrupt flag

This flag is set by hardware on COM event (when Capture/compare Control bits - CCxE,
CCxNE, OCxM - have been updated). It is cleared by software by writing it to ‘0’.


0: No COM event occurred.

1: COM interrupt pending.


Bit 4 **CC4IF** : Capture/Compare 4 interrupt flag


refer to CC1IF description


Bit 3 **CC3IF** : Capture/Compare 3 interrupt flag


refer to CC1IF description


RM0091 Rev 10 383/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


Bit 2 **CC2IF** : Capture/Compare 2 interrupt flag


refer to CC1IF description


Bit 1 **CC1IF** : Capture/Compare 1 interrupt flag

**If channel CC1 is configured as output:**
This flag is set by hardware when the counter matches the compare value, with some
exception in center-aligned mode (refer to the CMS bits in the TIMx_CR1 register description).
It is cleared by software.


0: No match.

1: The content of the counter TIMx_CNT matches the content of the TIMx_CCR1 register.
When the contents of TIMx_CCR1 are greater than the contents of TIMx_ARR, the CC1IF
bit goes high on the counter overflow (in upcounting and up/down-counting modes) or
underflow (in downcounting mode)

**If channel CC1 is configured as input:**
This bit is set by hardware on a capture. It is cleared by software or by reading the
TIMx_CCR1 register.


0: No input capture occurred
1: The counter value has been captured in TIMx_CCR1 register (An edge has been
detected on IC1 which matches the selected polarity)


Bit 0 **UIF** : Update interrupt flag

This bit is set by hardware on an update event. It is cleared by software.


0: No update occurred.
1: Update interrupt pending. This bit is set by hardware when the registers are updated:

– At overflow or underflow regarding the repetition counter value (update if repetition
counter = 0) and if the UDIS=0 in the TIMx_CR1 register.

– When CNT is reinitialized by software using the UG bit in TIMx_EGR register, if URS=0
and UDIS=0 in the TIMx_CR1 register.

– When CNT is reinitialized by a trigger event (refer to _Section 17.4.3: TIM1 slave mode_
_control register (TIM1_SMCR)_ ), if URS=0 and UDIS=0 in the TIMx_CR1 register.


**17.4.6** **TIM1 event generation register (TIM1_EGR)**


Address offset: 0x14


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|BG|TG|COMG|CC4G|CC3G|CC2G|CC1G|UG|
|||||||||w|w|w|w|w|w|w|w|



384/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


Bits 15:8 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 7 **BG** : Break generation

This bit is set by software in order to generate an event, it is automatically cleared by
hardware.


0: No action

1: A break event is generated. MOE bit is cleared and BIF flag is set. Related interrupt or
DMA transfer can occur if enabled.


Bit 6 **TG** : Trigger generation

This bit is set by software in order to generate an event, it is automatically cleared by
hardware.


0: No action

1: The TIF flag is set in TIMx_SR register. Related interrupt or DMA transfer can occur if
enabled.


Bit 5 **COMG** : Capture/Compare control update generation

This bit can be set by software, it is automatically cleared by hardware


0: No action

1: When CCPC bit is set, it allows to update CCxE, CCxNE and OCxM bits

_Note: This bit acts only on channels having a complementary output._


Bit 4 **CC4G** : Capture/Compare 4 generation


Refer to CC1G description


Bit 3 **CC3G** : Capture/Compare 3 generation


Refer to CC1G description


Bit 2 **CC2G** : Capture/Compare 2 generation


Refer to CC1G description


Bit 1 **CC1G** : Capture/Compare 1 generation

This bit is set by software in order to generate an event, it is automatically cleared by
hardware.


0: No action

1: A capture/compare event is generated on channel 1:

**If channel CC1 is configured as output:**
CC1IF flag is set, Corresponding interrupt or DMA request is sent if enabled.
**If channel CC1 is configured as input:**
The current value of the counter is captured in TIMx_CCR1 register. The CC1IF flag is set, the
corresponding interrupt or DMA request is sent if enabled. The CC1OF flag is set if the CC1IF
flag was already high.


Bit 0 **UG** : Update generation

This bit can be set by software, it is automatically cleared by hardware.


0: No action

1: Reinitialize the counter and generates an update of the registers. Note that the prescaler
counter is cleared too (anyway the prescaler ratio is not affected). The counter is cleared if
the center-aligned mode is selected or if DIR=0 (upcounting), else it takes the auto-reload
value (TIMx_ARR) if DIR=1 (downcounting).


RM0091 Rev 10 385/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**17.4.7** **TIM1 capture/compare mode register 1 (TIM1_CCMR1)**


Address offset: 0x18


Reset value: 0x0000


The channels can be used in input (capture mode) or in output (compare mode). The
direction of a channel is defined by configuring the corresponding CCxS bits. All the other
bits of this register have a different function in input and in output mode. For a given bit,
OCxx describes its function when the channel is configured in output, ICxx describes its
function when the channel is configured in input. So one must take care that the same bit
can have a different meaning for the input stage and for the output stage.







|15|14 13 12|Col3|Col4|11|10|9 8|Col8|7|6 5 4|Col11|Col12|3|2|1 0|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|OC2<br>CE|OC2M[2:0]|OC2M[2:0]|OC2M[2:0]|OC2<br>PE|OC2<br>FE|CC2S[1:0]|CC2S[1:0]|OC1<br>CE|OC1M[2:0]|OC1M[2:0]|OC1M[2:0]|OC1<br>PE|OC1<br>FE|CC1S[1:0]|CC1S[1:0]|
|IC2F[3:0]|IC2F[3:0]|IC2F[3:0]|IC2F[3:0]|IC2PSC[1:0]|IC2PSC[1:0]|IC2PSC[1:0]|IC2PSC[1:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1PSC[1:0]|IC1PSC[1:0]|IC1PSC[1:0]|IC1PSC[1:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|


**Output compare mode**


Bit 15 **OC2CE:** Output Compare 2 clear enable


Bits 14:12 **OC2M[2:0]** : Output Compare 2 mode


Bit 11 **OC2PE** : Output Compare 2 preload enable


Bit 10 **OC2FE** : Output Compare 2 fast enable


Bits 9:8 **CC2S[1:0]** : Capture/Compare 2 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.


00: CC2 channel is configured as output
01: CC2 channel is configured as input, IC2 is mapped on TI2
10: CC2 channel is configured as input, IC2 is mapped on TI1
11: CC2 channel is configured as input, IC2 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through the TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC2S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC2E = ‘0’ in TIMx_CCER)._


Bit 7 **OC1CE:** Output Compare 1 clear enable

OC1CE: Output Compare 1 Clear Enable

0: OC1Ref is not affected by the ETRF Input
1: OC1Ref is cleared as soon as a High level is detected on ETRF input


386/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


Bits 6:4 **OC1M** : Output Compare 1 mode

These bits define the behavior of the output reference signal OC1REF from which OC1 and
OC1N are derived. OC1REF is active high whereas OC1 and OC1N active level depends on
CC1P and CC1NP bits.


000: Frozen - The comparison between the output compare register TIMx_CCR1 and the
counter TIMx_CNT has no effect on the outputs (this mode is used to generate a timing
base).
001: Set channel 1 to active level on match. OC1REF signal is forced high when the counter
TIMx_CNT matches the capture/compare register 1 (TIMx_CCR1).
010: Set channel 1 to inactive level on match. OC1REF signal is forced low when the
counter TIMx_CNT matches the capture/compare register 1 (TIMx_CCR1).
011: Toggle - OC1REF toggles when TIMx_CNT=TIMx_CCR1.
100: Force inactive level - OC1REF is forced low.

101: Force active level - OC1REF is forced high.
110: PWM mode 1 - In upcounting, channel 1 is active as long as TIMx_CNT<TIMx_CCR1
else inactive. In downcounting, channel 1 is inactive (OC1REF=‘0’) as long as
TIMx_CNT>TIMx_CCR1 else active (OC1REF=’1’).
111: PWM mode 2 - In upcounting, channel 1 is inactive as long as TIMx_CNT<TIMx_CCR1
else active. In downcounting, channel 1 is active as long as TIMx_CNT>TIMx_CCR1 else
inactive.

_Note:_ _**1:**_ _These bits can not be modified as long as LOCK level 3 has been programmed_
_(LOCK bits in TIMx_BDTR register) and CC1S=’00’ (the channel is configured in_
_output)._


_**2:**_ _In PWM mode 1 or 2, the OCREF level changes only when the result of the_
_comparison changes or when the output compare mode switches from “frozen” mode_
_to “PWM” mode._

_**3:**_ _On channels having a complementary output, this bit field is preloaded. If the CCPC_
_bit is set in the TIMx_CR2 register then the OC1M active bits take the new value from_
_the preloaded bits only when a COM event is generated._


RM0091 Rev 10 387/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


Bit 3 **OC1PE** : Output Compare 1 preload enable


0: Preload register on TIMx_CCR1 disabled. TIMx_CCR1 can be written at anytime, the
new value is taken in account immediately.
1: Preload register on TIMx_CCR1 enabled. Read/Write operations access the preload
register. TIMx_CCR1 preload value is loaded in the active register at each update event.

_Note: These bits can not be modified as long as LOCK level 3 has been programmed (LOCK_
_bits in TIMx_BDTR register) and CC1S=’00’ (the channel is configured in output)._


Bit 2 **OC1FE** : Output Compare 1 fast enable

This bit is used to accelerate the effect of an event on the trigger in input on the CC output.


0: CC1 behaves normally depending on counter and CCR1 values even when the trigger is
ON. The minimum delay to activate CC1 output when an edge occurs on the trigger input is
5 clock cycles.
1: An active edge on the trigger input acts like a compare match on CC1 output. Then, OC is
set to the compare level independently from the result of the comparison. Delay to sample
the trigger input and to activate CC1 output is reduced to 3 clock cycles. OCFE acts only if
the channel is configured in PWM1 or PWM2 mode.


Bits 1:0 **CC1S** : Capture/Compare 1 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.


00: CC1 channel is configured as output
01: CC1 channel is configured as input, IC1 is mapped on TI1
10: CC1 channel is configured as input, IC1 is mapped on TI2
11: CC1 channel is configured as input, IC1 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC1S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC1E = ‘0’ in TIMx_CCER)._


**Input capture mode**


Bits 15:12 **IC2F** : Input capture 2 filter


Bits 11:10 **IC2PSC[1:0]** : Input capture 2 prescaler


Bits 9:8 **CC2S** : Capture/Compare 2 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.


00: CC2 channel is configured as output
01: CC2 channel is configured as input, IC2 is mapped on TI2
10: CC2 channel is configured as input, IC2 is mapped on TI1
11: CC2 channel is configured as input, IC2 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if an
internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC2S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC2E = ‘0’ in TIMx_CCER)._


388/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


Bits 7:4 **IC1F[3:0]** : Input capture 1 filter

This bit-field defines the frequency used to sample TI1 input and the length of the digital filter applied to
TI1. The digital filter is made of an event counter in which N consecutive events are needed to validate
a transition on the output:

0000: No filter, sampling is done at f DTS
0001: f SAMPLING = f CK_INT, N = 2
0010: f SAMPLING = f CK_INT, N = 4
0011: f SAMPLING = f CK_INT, N = 8
0100: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 2, N = 6
0101: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 2, N = 8
0110: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 4, N = 6
0111: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 4, N = 8
1000: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 8, N = 6
1001: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 8, N = 8
1010: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 16, N = 5
1011: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 16, N = 6
1100: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 16, N = 8
1101: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 32, N = 5
1110: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 32, N = 6
1111: f SAMPLING = f DTS / 32, N = 8
_Note: Care must be taken that f_ _DTS_ _is replaced in the formula by CK_INT when ICxF[3:0] = 1, 2 or 3._


Bits 3:2 **IC1PSC** : Input capture 1 prescaler

This bit-field defines the ratio of the prescaler acting on CC1 input (IC1).
The prescaler is reset as soon as CC1E=’0’ (TIMx_CCER register).


00: no prescaler, capture is done each time an edge is detected on the capture input
01: capture is done once every 2 events
10: capture is done once every 4 events
11: capture is done once every 8 events


Bits 1:0 **CC1S** : Capture/Compare 1 Selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.


00: CC1 channel is configured as output
01: CC1 channel is configured as input, IC1 is mapped on TI1
10: CC1 channel is configured as input, IC1 is mapped on TI2
11: CC1 channel is configured as input, IC1 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if an
internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC1S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC1E = ‘0’ in TIMx_CCER)._


**17.4.8** **TIM1 capture/compare mode register 2 (TIM1_CCMR2)**


Address offset: 0x1C


Reset value: 0x0000


Refer to the above CCMR1 register description.







|15|14 13 12|Col3|Col4|11|10|9 8|Col8|7|6 5 4|Col11|Col12|3|2|1 0|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|OC4<br>CE|OC4M[2:0]|OC4M[2:0]|OC4M[2:0]|OC4<br>PE|OC4<br>FE|CC4S[1:0]|CC4S[1:0]|OC3<br>CE.|OC3M[2:0]|OC3M[2:0]|OC3M[2:0]|OC3<br>PE|OC3<br>FE|CC3S[1:0]|CC3S[1:0]|
|IC4F[3:0]|IC4F[3:0]|IC4F[3:0]|IC4F[3:0]|IC4PSC[1:0]|IC4PSC[1:0]|IC4PSC[1:0]|IC4PSC[1:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3PSC[1:0]|IC3PSC[1:0]|IC3PSC[1:0]|IC3PSC[1:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|


RM0091 Rev 10 389/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**Output compare mode**


Bit 15 **OC4CE:** Output compare 4 clear enable


Bits 14:12 **OC4M** : Output compare 4 mode


Bit 11 **OC4PE** : Output compare 4 preload enable


Bit 10 **OC4FE** : Output compare 4 fast enable


Bits 9:8 **CC4S** : Capture/Compare 4 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.


00: CC4 channel is configured as output
01: CC4 channel is configured as input, IC4 is mapped on TI4
10: CC4 channel is configured as input, IC4 is mapped on TI3
11: CC4 channel is configured as input, IC4 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC4S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC4E = ‘0’ in TIMx_CCER)._


Bit 7 **OC3CE:** Output compare 3 clear enable


Bits 6:4 **OC3M** : Output compare 3 mode


Bit 3 **OC3PE** : Output compare 3 preload enable


Bit 2 **OC3FE** : Output compare 3 fast enable


Bits 1:0 **CC3S** : Capture/Compare 3 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.


00: CC3 channel is configured as output
01: CC3 channel is configured as input, IC3 is mapped on TI3
10: CC3 channel is configured as input, IC3 is mapped on TI4
11: CC3 channel is configured as input, IC3 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC3S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC3E = ‘0’ in TIMx_CCER)._


**Input capture mode**


Bits 15:12 **IC4F** : Input capture 4 filter


Bits 11:10 **IC4PSC** : Input capture 4 prescaler


Bits 9:8 **CC4S** : Capture/Compare 4 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.


00: CC4 channel is configured as output
01: CC4 channel is configured as input, IC4 is mapped on TI4
10: CC4 channel is configured as input, IC4 is mapped on TI3
11: CC4 channel is configured as input, IC4 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC4S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC4E = ‘0’ in TIMx_CCER)._


390/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


Bits 7:4 **IC3F** : Input capture 3 filter


Bits 3:2 **IC3PSC** : Input capture 3 prescaler


Bits 1:0 **CC3S** : Capture/compare 3 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.


00: CC3 channel is configured as output
01: CC3 channel is configured as input, IC3 is mapped on TI3
10: CC3 channel is configured as input, IC3 is mapped on TI4
11: CC3 channel is configured as input, IC3 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC3S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC3E = ‘0’ in TIMx_CCER)._


**17.4.9** **TIM1 capture/compare enable register (TIM1_CCER)**


Address offset: 0x20


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|CC4P|CC4E|CC3NP|CC3NE|CC3P|CC3E|CC2NP|CC2NE|CC2P|CC2E|CC1NP|CC1NE|CC1P|CC1E|
|||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:14 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 13 **CC4P** : Capture/Compare 4 output polarity


refer to CC1P description


Bit 12 **CC4E** : Capture/Compare 4 output enable


refer to CC1E description


Bit 11 **CC3NP** : Capture/Compare 3 complementary output polarity


refer to CC1NP description


Bit 10 **CC3NE** : Capture/Compare 3 complementary output enable


refer to CC1NE description


Bit 9 **CC3P** : Capture/Compare 3 output polarity


refer to CC1P description


Bit 8 **CC3E** : Capture/Compare 3 output enable


refer to CC1E description


Bit 7 **CC2NP** : Capture/Compare 2 complementary output polarity


refer to CC1NP description


Bit 6 **CC2NE** : Capture/Compare 2 complementary output enable


refer to CC1NE description


Bit 5 **CC2P** : Capture/Compare 2 output polarity


refer to CC1P description


Bit 4 **CC2E** : Capture/Compare 2 output enable


refer to CC1E description


RM0091 Rev 10 391/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


Bit 3 **CC1NP** : Capture/Compare 1 complementary output polarity

**CC1 channel configuration as output:**

0: OC1N active high.
1: OC1N active low.

**CC1 channel configuration as input:**

This bit is used in conjunction with CC1P to define the polarity of TI1FP1 and TI2FP1. Refer to
CC1P description.

_Note: On channels having a complementary output, this bit is preloaded. If the CCPC bit is_
_set in the TIMx_CR2 register then the CC1NP active bit takes the new value from the_
_preloaded bits only when a Commutation event is generated._

_Note: This bit is not writable as soon as LOCK level 2 or 3 has been programmed (LOCK bits_
_in TIMx_BDTR register) and CC1S=”00” (the channel is configured in output)._


Bit 2 **CC1NE** : Capture/Compare 1 complementary output enable


0: Off - OC1N is not active. OC1N level is then function of MOE, OSSI, OSSR, OIS1, OIS1N
and CC1E bits.

1: On - OC1N signal is output on the corresponding output pin depending on MOE, OSSI,
OSSR, OIS1, OIS1N and CC1E bits.

_Note: On channels having a complementary output, this bit is preloaded. If the CCPC bit is_
_set in the TIMx_CR2 register then the CC1NE active bit takes the new value from the_
_preloaded bits only when a Commutation event is generated._


Bit 1 **CC1P** : Capture/Compare 1 output polarity

**CC1 channel configured as output:**

0: OC1 active high
1: OC1 active low

**CC1 channel configured as input:**

CC1NP/CC1P bits select the active polarity of TI1FP1 and TI2FP1 for trigger or capture

operations.

00: non-inverted/rising edge
The circuit is sensitive to TIxFP1 rising edge (capture or trigger operations in reset, external
clock or trigger mode), TIxFP1 is not inverted (trigger operation in gated mode or encoder
mode).
01: inverted/falling edge
The circuit is sensitive to TIxFP1 falling edge (capture or trigger operations in reset, external
clock or trigger mode), TIxFP1 is inverted (trigger operation in gated mode or encoder
mode).
10: reserved, do not use this configuration.
11: non-inverted/both edges

The circuit is sensitive to both TIxFP1 rising and falling edges (capture or trigger operations

in reset, external clock or trigger mode), TIxFP1 is not inverted (trigger operation in gated

mode). This configuration must not be used in encoder mode _._

_Note: On channels having a complementary output, this bit is preloaded. If the CCPC bit is_
_set in the TIMx_CR2 register then the CC1P active bit takes the new value from the_
_preloaded bits only when a Commutation event is generated._

_Note: This bit is not writable as soon as LOCK level 2 or 3 has been programmed (LOCK bits_
_in TIMx_BDTR register)._


392/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


Bit 0 **CC1E** : Capture/Compare 1 output enable

**CC1 channel configured as output:**


0: Off - OC1 is not active. OC1 level is then function of MOE, OSSI, OSSR, OIS1, OIS1N
and CC1NE bits.

1: On - OC1 signal is output on the corresponding output pin depending on MOE, OSSI,
OSSR, OIS1, OIS1N and CC1NE bits.

**CC1 channel configured as input:**

This bit determines if a capture of the counter value can actually be done into the input
capture/compare register 1 (TIMx_CCR1) or not.


0: Capture disabled.
1: Capture enabled.

_Note: On channels having a complementary output, this bit is preloaded. If the CCPC bit is_
_set in the TIMx_CR2 register then the CC1E active bit takes the new value from the_
_preloaded bits only when a Commutation event is generated._


**Table 63. Output control bits for complementary OCx and OCxN channels with**








|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|break feature|Col7|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**Control bits**|**Control bits**|**Control bits**|**Control bits**|**Control bits**|**Output states(1)**|**Output states(1)**|
|**MOE**<br>**bit**|**OSSI**<br>**bit**|**OSSR**<br>**bit**|**CCxE**<br>**bit**|**CCxNE**<br>**bit**|**OCx output state**|**OCxN output state**|
|1|X|0|0|0|Output Disabled (not driven by<br>the timer) <br>OCx=0, OCx_EN=0|Output Disabled (not driven by the<br>timer) <br>OCxN=0, OCxN_EN=0|
|1|X|0|0|1|Output Disabled (not driven by<br>the timer) <br>OCx=0, OCx_EN=0|OCxREF + Polarity OCxN=OCxREF<br>xor CCxNP, OCxN_EN=1|
|1|X|0|1|0|OCxREF + Polarity <br>OCx=OCxREF xor CCxP, <br>OCx_EN=1|Output Disabled (not driven by the<br>timer) <br>OCxN=0, OCxN_EN=0|
|1|X|0|1|1|OCREF + Polarity + dead-time <br>OCx_EN=1|Complementary to OCREF (not<br>OCREF) + Polarity + dead-time <br>OCxN_EN=1|
|1|X|1|0|0|Output Disabled (not driven by<br>the timer) <br>OCx=CCxP, OCx_EN=0|Output Disabled (not driven by the<br>timer) <br>OCxN=CCxNP, OCxN_EN=0|
|1|X|1|0|1|Off-State (output enabled with<br>inactive state) <br>OCx=CCxP, OCx_EN=1|OCxREF + Polarity <br>OCxN=OCxREF xor CCxNP,<br>OCxN_EN=1|
|1|X|1|1|0|OCxREF + Polarity <br>OCx=OCxREF xor CCxP, <br>OCx_EN=1|Off-State (output enabled with<br>inactive state) <br>OCxN=CCxNP, OCxN_EN=1|
|1|X|1|1|1|OCREF + Polarity + dead-time <br>OCx_EN=1|Complementary to OCREF (not<br>OCREF) + Polarity + dead-time <br>OCxN_EN=1|



RM0091 Rev 10 393/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**Table 63. Output control bits for complementary OCx and OCxN channels with**
**break feature (continued)**


























|Control bits|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Output states(1)|Col7|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**MOE**<br>**bit**|**OSSI**<br>**bit**|**OSSR**<br>**bit**|**CCxE**<br>**bit**|**CCxNE**<br>**bit**|**OCx output state**|**OCxN output state**|
|0|0|X|0|0|Output Disabled (not driven by<br>the timer) <br>OCx=CCxP, OCx_EN=0|Output Disabled (not driven by the <br>timer) <br>OCxN=CCxNP, OCxN_EN=0|
|0|0|0|0|1|Output Disabled (not driven by the timer) <br>Asynchronously: OCx=CCxP, OCx_EN=0, OCxN=CCxNP, <br>OCxN_EN=0 <br>Then if the clock is present: OCx=OISx and OCxN=OISxN after a <br>dead-time, assuming that OISx and OISxN do not correspond to OCX <br>and OCxN both in active state.|Output Disabled (not driven by the timer) <br>Asynchronously: OCx=CCxP, OCx_EN=0, OCxN=CCxNP, <br>OCxN_EN=0 <br>Then if the clock is present: OCx=OISx and OCxN=OISxN after a <br>dead-time, assuming that OISx and OISxN do not correspond to OCX <br>and OCxN both in active state.|
|0|0|0|1|0|0|0|
|0|0|0|1|1|1|1|
|0|1|1|0|0|Output Disabled (not driven by<br>the timer) <br>OCx=CCxP, OCx_EN=0|Output Disabled (not driven by the <br>timer) <br>OCxN=CCxNP, OCxN_EN=0|
|0|1|1|0|1|Off-State (output enabled with inactive state) <br>Asynchronously: OCx=CCxP, OCx_EN=1, OCxN=CCxNP, <br>OCxN_EN=1 <br>Then if the clock is present: OCx=OISx and OCxN=OISxN after a <br>dead-time, assuming that OISx and OISxN do not correspond to OCX <br>and OCxN both in active state.|Off-State (output enabled with inactive state) <br>Asynchronously: OCx=CCxP, OCx_EN=1, OCxN=CCxNP, <br>OCxN_EN=1 <br>Then if the clock is present: OCx=OISx and OCxN=OISxN after a <br>dead-time, assuming that OISx and OISxN do not correspond to OCX <br>and OCxN both in active state.|
|0|1|1|1|0|0|0|
|0|1|1|1|1|1|1|



1. When both outputs of a channel are not used (CCxE = CCxNE = 0), the OISx, OISxN, CCxP and CCxNP bits must be kept
cleared.


_Note:_ _The state of the external I/O pins connected to the complementary OCx and OCxN channels_
_depends on the OCx and OCxN channel state and the GPIO registers._


**17.4.10** **TIM1 counter (TIM1_CNT)**


Address offset: 0x24


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:0 **CNT[15:0]** : Counter value


394/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**17.4.11** **TIM1 prescaler (TIM1_PSC)**


Address offset: 0x28


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:0 **PSC[15:0]** : Prescaler value
The counter clock frequency (CK_CNT) is equal to f CK_PSC / (PSC[15:0] + 1).
PSC contains the value to be loaded in the active prescaler register at each update event
(including when the counter is cleared through UG bit of TIMx_EGR register or through trigger
controller when configured in “reset mode”).


**17.4.12** **TIM1 auto-reload register (TIM1_ARR)**


Address offset: 0x2C


Reset value: 0xFFFF

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:0 **ARR[15:0]** : Auto-reload value

ARR is the value to be loaded in the actual auto-reload register.

Refer to the _Section 17.3.1: Time-base unit on page 330_ for more details about ARR update
and behavior.

The counter is blocked while the auto-reload value is null.


**17.4.13** **TIM1 repetition counter register (TIM1_RCR)**


Address offset: 0x30


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|
|||||||||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



RM0091 Rev 10 395/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


Bits 15:8 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 7:0 **REP[7:0]** : Repetition counter value

These bits allow the user to set-up the update rate of the compare registers (i.e. periodic
transfers from preload to active registers) when preload registers are enable, as well as the
update interrupt generation rate, if this interrupt is enable.

Each time the REP_CNT related downcounter reaches zero, an update event is generated
and it restarts counting from REP value. As REP_CNT is reloaded with REP value only at the
repetition update event U_RC, any write to the TIMx_RCR register is not taken in account until
the next repetition update event.

It means in PWM mode (REP+1) corresponds to:

–
the number of PWM periods in edge-aligned mode

–
the number of half PWM period in center-aligned mode.


**17.4.14** **TIM1 capture/compare register 1 (TIM1_CCR1)**


Address offset: 0x34


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:0 **CCR1[15:0]** : Capture/Compare 1 value

**If channel CC1 is configured as output** :
CCR1 is the value to be loaded in the actual capture/compare 1 register (preload value).

It is loaded permanently if the preload feature is not selected in the TIMx_CCMR1 register (bit
OC1PE). Else the preload value is copied in the active capture/compare 1 register when an
update event occurs.

The active capture/compare register contains the value to be compared to the counter
TIMx_CNT and signaled on OC1 output.

**If channel CC1 is configured as input** :
CCR1 is the counter value transferred by the last input capture 1 event (IC1).


**17.4.15** **TIM1 capture/compare register 2 (TIM1_CCR2)**


Address offset: 0x38


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



396/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


Bits 15:0 **CCR2[15:0]** : Capture/Compare 2 value

**If channel CC2 is configured as output** :
CCR2 is the value to be loaded in the actual capture/compare 2 register (preload value).

It is loaded permanently if the preload feature is not selected in the TIMx_CCMR2 register (bit
OC2PE). Else the preload value is copied in the active capture/compare 2 register when an
update event occurs.

The active capture/compare register contains the value to be compared to the counter
TIMx_CNT and signalled on OC2 output.
**If channel CC2 is configured as input** :
CCR2 is the counter value transferred by the last input capture 2 event (IC2).


**17.4.16** **TIM1 capture/compare register 3 (TIM1_CCR3)**


Address offset: 0x3C


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:0 **CCR3[15:0]** : Capture/Compare value

**If channel CC3 is configured as output** :
CCR3 is the value to be loaded in the actual capture/compare 3 register (preload value).

It is loaded permanently if the preload feature is not selected in the TIMx_CCMR3 register (bit
OC3PE). Else the preload value is copied in the active capture/compare 3 register when an
update event occurs.

The active capture/compare register contains the value to be compared to the counter
TIMx_CNT and signalled on OC3 output.

**If channel CC3 is configured as input** :
CCR3 is the counter value transferred by the last input capture 3 event (IC3).


RM0091 Rev 10 397/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**17.4.17** **TIM1 capture/compare register 4 (TIM1_CCR4)**


Address offset: 0x40


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:0 **CCR4[15:0]** : Capture/Compare value

**If channel CC4 is configured as output** :
CCR4 is the value to be loaded in the actual capture/compare 4 register (preload value).

It is loaded permanently if the preload feature is not selected in the TIMx_CCMR4 register (bit
OC4PE). Else the preload value is copied in the active capture/compare 4 register when an
update event occurs.

The active capture/compare register contains the value to be compared to the counter
TIMx_CNT and signalled on OC4 output.
**If channel CC4 is configured as input** :
CCR4 is the counter value transferred by the last input capture 4 event (IC4).


**17.4.18** **TIM1 break and dead-time register (TIM1_BDTR)**


Address offset: 0x44


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9 8|Col8|7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|MOE|AOE|BKP|BKE|OSSR|OSSI|LOCK[1:0]|LOCK[1:0]|DTG[7:0]|DTG[7:0]|DTG[7:0]|DTG[7:0]|DTG[7:0]|DTG[7:0]|DTG[7:0]|DTG[7:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



_Note:_ _As the bits AOE, BKP, BKE, OSSI, OSSR and DTG[7:0] can be write-locked depending on_
_the LOCK configuration, it can be necessary to configure all of them during the first write_
_access to the TIMx_BDTR register._


Bit 15 **MOE** : Main output enable

This bit is cleared asynchronously by hardware as soon as the break input is active. It is set by
software or automatically depending on the AOE bit. It is acting only on the channels which are
configured in output.


0: OC and OCN outputs are disabled or forced to idle state.
1: OC and OCN outputs are enabled if their respective enable bits are set (CCxE, CCxNE in
TIMx_CCER register).
See OC/OCN enable description for more details ( _Section 17.4.9: TIM1 capture/compare_
_enable register (TIM1_CCER) on page 391_ ).


Bit 14 **AOE** : Automatic output enable


0: MOE can be set only by software
1: MOE can be set by software or automatically at the next update event (if the break input is
not be active)

_Note: This bit cannot be modified as long as LOCK level 1 has been programmed (LOCK bits_
_in TIMx_BDTR register)._


398/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


Bit 13 **BKP** : Break polarity


0: Break input BRK is active low
1: Break input BRK is active high

_Note: This bit can not be modified as long as LOCK level 1 has been programmed (LOCK bits_
_in TIMx_BDTR register)._

_Note: Any write operation to this bit takes a delay of 1 APB clock cycle to become effective._


Bit 12 **BKE** : Break enable


0: Break inputs (BRK and CCS clock failure event) disabled
1; Break inputs (BRK and CCS clock failure event) enabled

_Note: This bit cannot be modified when LOCK level 1 has been programmed (LOCK bits in_
_TIMx_BDTR register)._

_Note: Any write operation to this bit takes a delay of 1 APB clock cycle to become effective._


Bit 11 **OSSR** : Off-state selection for Run mode

This bit is used when MOE=1 on channels having a complementary output which are
configured as outputs. OSSR is not implemented if no complementary output is implemented in
the timer.

See OC/OCN enable description for more details ( _Section 17.4.9: TIM1 capture/compare_
_enable register (TIM1_CCER) on page 391_ ).


0: When inactive, OC/OCN outputs are disabled (OC/OCN enable output signal=0).
1: When inactive, OC/OCN outputs are enabled with their inactive level as soon as CCxE=1
or CCxNE=1. Then, OC/OCN enable output signal=1

_Note: This bit can not be modified as soon as the LOCK level 2 has been programmed (LOCK_
_bits in TIMx_BDTR register)._


Bit 10 **OSSI** : Off-state selection for Idle mode

This bit is used when MOE=0 on channels configured as outputs.
See OC/OCN enable description for more details ( _Section 17.4.9: TIM1 capture/compare_
_enable register (TIM1_CCER) on page 391_ ).


0: When inactive, OC/OCN outputs are disabled (OC/OCN enable output signal=0).
1: When inactive, OC/OCN outputs are forced first with their idle level as soon as CCxE=1 or
CCxNE=1. OC/OCN enable output signal=1)

_Note: This bit can not be modified as soon as the LOCK level 2 has been programmed (LOCK_
_bits in TIMx_BDTR register)._


Bits 9:8 **LOCK[1:0]** : Lock configuration

These bits offer a write protection against software errors.


00: LOCK OFF - No bit is write protected.
01: LOCK Level 1 = DTG bits in TIMx_BDTR register, OISx and OISxN bits in TIMx_CR2
register and BKE/BKP/AOE bits in TIMx_BDTR register can no longer be written.
10: LOCK Level 2 = LOCK Level 1 + CC Polarity bits (CCxP/CCxNP bits in TIMx_CCER
register, as long as the related channel is configured in output through the CCxS bits) as well
as OSSR and OSSI bits can no longer be written.
11: LOCK Level 3 = LOCK Level 2 + CC Control bits (OCxM and OCxPE bits in
TIMx_CCMRx registers, as long as the related channel is configured in output through the
CCxS bits) can no longer be written.

_Note: The LOCK bits can be written only once after the reset. Once the TIMx_BDTR register_
_has been written, their content is frozen until the next reset._


RM0091 Rev 10 399/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


Bits 7:0 **DTG[7:0]** : Dead-time generator setup

This bit-field defines the duration of the dead-time inserted between the complementary
outputs. DT correspond to this duration.
DTG[7:5]=0xx => DT=DTG[7:0]x t dtg with t dtg =t DTS .
DTG[7:5]=10x => DT=(64+DTG[5:0])xt dtg with T dtg =2xt DTS .
DTG[7:5]=110 => DT=(32+DTG[4:0])xt dtg with T dtg =8xt DTS .
DTG[7:5]=111 => DT=(32+DTG[4:0])xt dtg with T dtg =16xt DTS .
Example if T DTS =125 ns (8 MHz), dead-time possible values are:
0 to 15875 ns by 125 ns steps,
16 us to 31750 ns by 250 ns steps,
32 us to 63 us by 1 us steps,
64 us to 126 us by 2 us steps

_Note: This bit-field can not be modified as long as LOCK level 1, 2 or 3 has been programmed_
_(LOCK bits in TIMx_BDTR register)._


**17.4.19** **TIM1 DMA control register (TIM1_DCR)**


Address offset: 0x48


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12 11 10 9 8|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|7|6|5|4 3 2 1 0|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|
||||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw||||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:13 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 12:8 **DBL[4:0]** : DMA burst length

This 5-bit vector defines the number of DMA transfers (the timer recognizes a burst transfer
when a read or a write access is done to the TIMx_DMAR address)

00000: 1 transfer

00001: 2 transfers

00010: 3 transfers

...

10001: 18 transfers


Bits 7:5 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 4:0 **DBA[4:0]** : DMA base address

This 5-bit vector defines the base-address for DMA transfers (when read/write access are
done through the TIMx_DMAR address). DBA is defined as an offset starting from the address
of the TIMx_CR1 register.

Example:


00000: TIMx_CR1,
00001: TIMx_CR2,
00010: TIMx_SMCR,

...

**Example:** Let us consider the following transfer: DBL = 7 transfers and DBA = TIMx_CR1. In
this case the transfer is done to/from 7 registers starting from the TIMx_CR1 address.


400/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**17.4.20** **TIM1 DMA address for full transfer (TIM1_DMAR)**


Address offset: 0x4C


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:0 **DMAB[15:0]** : DMA register for burst accesses

A read or write operation to the DMAR register accesses the register located at the address

(TIMx_CR1 address) + (DBA + DMA index) x 4

where TIMx_CR1 address is the address of the control register 1, DBA is the DMA base
address configured in TIMx_DCR register, DMA index is automatically controlled by the DMA
transfer, and ranges from 0 to DBL (DBL configured in TIMx_DCR).


**Example of how to use the DMA burst feature**


In this example the timer DMA burst feature is used to update the contents of the CCRx
registers (x = 2, 3, 4) with the DMA transferring half words into the CCRx registers.


This is done in the following steps:


1. Configure the corresponding DMA channel as follows:


–
DMA channel peripheral address is the DMAR register address


–
DMA channel memory address is the address of the buffer in the RAM containing
the data to be transferred by DMA into CCRx registers.


–
Number of data to transfer = 3 (See note below).


– Circular mode disabled.


2. Configure the DCR register by configuring the DBA and DBL bit fields as follows:
DBL = 3 transfers, DBA = 0xE.


3. Enable the TIMx update DMA request (set the UDE bit in the DIER register).


4. Enable TIMx


5. Enable the DMA channel


_Note:_ _This example is for the case where every CCRx register to be updated once. If every CCRx_
_register is to be updated twice for example, the number of data to transfer should be 6. Let's_
_take the example of a buffer in the RAM containing data1, data2, data3, data4, data5 and_
_data6. The data is transferred to the CCRx registers as follows: on the first update DMA_
_request, data1 is transferred to CCR2, data2 is transferred to CCR3, data3 is transferred to_
_CCR4 and on the second update DMA request, data4 is transferred to CCR2, data5 is_
_transferred to CCR3 and data6 is transferred to CCR4._


RM0091 Rev 10 401/1017



403


**Advanced-control timers (TIM1)** **RM0091**


**17.4.21** **TIM1 register map**


TIM1 registers are mapped as 16-bit addressable registers as described in the table below:


**Table 64. TIM1 register map and reset values**



























































































|Offset|Register|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0x00|**TIM1_CR1**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|CKD<br>[1:0]|CKD<br>[1:0]|ARPE|CMS<br>[1:0]|CMS<br>[1:0]|DIR|OPM|URS|UDIS|CEN|
|0x00|Reset value|||||||||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x04|**TIM1_CR2**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|OIS4|OIS3N|OIS3|OIS2N|OIS2|OIS1N|OIS1|TI1S|MMS[2:0]|MMS[2:0]|MMS[2:0]|CCDS|CCUS|Res.|CCPC|
|0x04|Reset value||||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0||0|
|0x08|**TIM1_SMCR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|ETP|ECE|ETPS<br>[1:0]|ETPS<br>[1:0]|ETF[3:0]|ETF[3:0]|ETF[3:0]|ETF[3:0]|MSM|TS[2:0]|TS[2:0]|TS[2:0]|OCCS|SMS[2:0]|SMS[2:0]|SMS[2:0]|
|0x08|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x0C|**TIM1_DIER**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TDE|COMDE|CC4DE|CC3DE|CC2DE|CC1DE|UDE|BIE|TIE|COMIE|CC4IE|CC3IE|CC2IE|CC1IE|UIE|
|0x0C|Reset value||||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x10|**TIM1_SR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|CC4OF|CC3OF|CC2OF|CC1OF|Res.|BIF|TIF|COMIF|CC4IF|CC3IF|CC2IF|CC1IF|UIF|
|0x10|Reset value||||||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x14|**TIM1_EGR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|BG|TG|COM|CC4G|CC3G|CC2G|CC1G|UG|
|0x14|Reset value|||||||||||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x18|**TIM1_CCMR1**<br>Output compare<br>mode|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|OC2CE|OC2M<br>[2:0]|OC2M<br>[2:0]|OC2M<br>[2:0]|OC2PE|OC2FE|CC2S<br>[1:0]|CC2S<br>[1:0]|OC1CE|OC1M<br>[2:0]|OC1M<br>[2:0]|OC1M<br>[2:0]|OC1PE|OC1FE|CC1S<br>[1:0]|CC1S<br>[1:0]|
|0x18|Reset value<br>|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0<br>|0<br>|0|0|0|0|0|0|0<br>|0<br>|0|0|
|0x18|~~**TIM1_CCMR1**~~<br>Input capture<br>mode|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|IC2F[3:0]|IC2F[3:0]|IC2F[3:0]|IC2F[3:0]|~~IC2~~<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|~~IC2~~<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|CC2S<br>[1:0]|CC2S<br>[1:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1F[3:0]|~~IC1~~<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|~~IC1~~<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|CC1S<br>[1:0]|CC1S<br>[1:0]|
|0x18|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x1C|**TIM1_CCMR2**<br>Output compare<br>mode|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|O24CE|OC4M<br>[2:0]|OC4M<br>[2:0]|OC4M<br>[2:0]|OC4PE|OC4FE|CC4S<br>[1:0]|CC4S<br>[1:0]|OC3CE|OC3M<br>[2:0]|OC3M<br>[2:0]|OC3M<br>[2:0]|OC3PE|OC3FE|CC3S<br>[1:0]|CC3S<br>[1:0]|
|0x1C|Reset value<br>|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0<br>|0<br>|0|0|0|0|0|0|0<br>|0<br>|0|0|
|0x1C|~~**TIM1_CCMR2**~~<br>Input capture<br>mode|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|IC4F[3:0]|IC4F[3:0]|IC4F[3:0]|IC4F[3:0]|~~IC4~~<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|~~IC4~~<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|CC4S<br>[1:0]|CC4S<br>[1:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3F[3:0]|~~IC3~~<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|~~IC3~~<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|CC3S<br>[1:0]|CC3S<br>[1:0]|
|0x1C|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x20|**TIM1_CCER**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|CC4P|CC4E|CC3NP|CC3NE|CC3P|CC3E|CC2NP|CC2NE|CC2P|CC2E|CC1NP|CC1NE|CC1P|CC1E|
|0x20|Reset value|||||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x24|**TIM1_CNT**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|
|0x24|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x28|**TIM1_PSC**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|
|0x28|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x2C|**TIM1_ARR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|
|0x2C|Reset value|||||||||||||||||1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|
|0x30|**TIM1_RCR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|REP[7:0]|
|0x30|Reset value|||||||||||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|


402/1017 RM0091 Rev 10


**RM0091** **Advanced-control timers (TIM1)**


**Table 64. TIM1 register map and reset values (continued)**













































|Offset|Register|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0x34|**TIM1_CCR1**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|
|0x34|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x38|**TIM1_CCR2**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|
|0x38|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x3C|**TIM1_CCR3**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|
|0x3C|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x40|**TIM1_CCR4**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|
|0x40|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x44|**TIM1_BDTR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|MOE|AOE|BKP|BKE|OSSR|OSSI|LOCK<br>[1:0]|LOCK<br>[1:0]|DT[7:0]|DT[7:0]|DT[7:0]|DT[7:0]|DT[7:0]|DT[7:0]|DT[7:0]|DT[7:0]|
|0x44|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x48|**TIM1_DCR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|
|0x48|Reset value||||||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0||||0|0|0|0|0|
|0x4C|**TIM1_DMAR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|
|0x4C|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|


Refer to _Section 2.2 on page 46_ for the register boundary addresses.


RM0091 Rev 10 403/1017



403


