**System window watchdog (WWDG)** **RM0360**

# **20 System window watchdog (WWDG)**

## **20.1 Introduction**


The system window watchdog (WWDG) is used to detect the occurrence of a software fault,
usually generated by external interference or by unforeseen logical conditions, which
causes the application program to abandon its normal sequence.


The watchdog circuit generates an MCU reset on expiry of a programmed time period,
unless the program refreshes the contents of the down-counter before the T6 bit is cleared.
An MCU reset is also generated if the 7-bit down-counter value (in the control register) is
refreshed before the down-counter reaches the window register value. This implies that the
counter must be refreshed in a limited window.


The WWDG clock is prescaled from the APB clock and has a configurable time-window that
can be programmed to detect abnormally late or early application behavior.


The WWDG is best suited for applications requiring the watchdog to react within an
accurate timing window.

## **20.2 WWDG main features**


      - Programmable free-running down-counter


      - Conditional reset


–
Reset (if watchdog activated) when the down-counter value becomes lower than
0x40


–
Reset (if watchdog activated) if the down-counter is reloaded outside the window
(see _Figure 196_ )


      - Early wake-up interrupt (EWI): triggered (if enabled and the watchdog activated) when
the down-counter is equal to 0x40

## **20.3 WWDG functional description**


If the watchdog is activated (the WDGA bit is set in the WWDG_CR register), and when the
7-bit down-counter (T[6:0] bits) is decremented from 0x40 to 0x3F (T6 becomes cleared), it
initiates a reset. If the software reloads the counter while the counter is greater than the
value stored in the window register, then a reset is generated.


The application program must write in the WWDG_CR register at regular intervals during
normal operation to prevent an MCU reset. This operation can take place only when the
counter value is lower than or equal to the window register value, and higher than 0x3F. The
value to be stored in the WWDG_CR register must be between 0xFF and 0xC0.


Refer to _Figure 195_ for the WWDG block diagram.


478/775 RM0360 Rev 5


**RM0360** **System window watchdog (WWDG)**


**20.3.1** **WWDG block diagram**


**Figure 195. Watchdog block diagram**































**20.3.2** **Enabling the watchdog**


The watchdog is always disabled after a reset. It is enabled by setting the WDGA bit in the
WWDG_CR register, then it cannot be disabled again except by a reset.


**20.3.3** **Controlling the down-counter**


This down-counter is free-running, counting down even if the watchdog is disabled. When
the watchdog is enabled, the T6 bit must be set to prevent generating an immediate reset.


The T[5:0] bits contain the number of increments that represent the time delay before the
watchdog produces a reset. The timing varies between a minimum and a maximum value,
due to the unknown status of the prescaler when writing to the WWDG_CR register (see
_Figure 196_ ). The _WWDG configuration register (WWDG_CFR)_ contains the high limit of the
window: to prevent a reset, the down-counter must be reloaded when its value is lower than
or equal to the window register value, and greater than 0x3F. _Figure 196_ describes the
window watchdog process.


_Note:_ _The T6 bit can be used to generate a software reset (the WDGA bit is set and the T6 bit is_
_cleared)._


**20.3.4** **How to program the watchdog timeout**


Use the formula in _Figure 196_ to calculate the WWDG timeout.


**Warning:** **When writing to the WWDG_CR register, always write 1 in the**
**T6 bit to avoid generating an immediate reset.**


RM0360 Rev 5 479/775



483


**System window watchdog (WWDG)** **RM0360**


**Figure 196. Window watchdog timing diagram**










|Col1|Col2|
|---|---|
|||
|||
|||



The formula to calculate the timeout value is given by:

tWWDG = tPCLK × 4096 × 2 [WDGTB[1:0]] × ( T 5:0 [ ] + 1 ) ( ms )


where:


t WWDG : WWDG timeout


t PCLK : APB clock period measured in ms


4096: value corresponding to internal divider


As an example, if APB frequency is 48 MHz, WDGTB[1:0] is set to 3 and T[5:0] is set to 63:

tWWDG = ( 1 ⁄ 48000 ) × 4096 × 2 [3] × ( 63 + 1 ) = 43.69ms


Refer to the datasheet for the minimum and maximum values of t WWDG .


**20.3.5** **Debug mode**


When the device enters debug mode (processor halted), the WWDG counter either
continues to work normally or stops, depending on the configuration bit in DBG module. For
more details, refer to _Section 26.9.2: Debug support for timers, watchdog and I_ _[2]_ _C_ .


480/775 RM0360 Rev 5


**RM0360** **System window watchdog (WWDG)**

## **20.4 WWDG interrupts**


The early wake-up interrupt (EWI) can be used if specific safety operations or data logging
must be performed before the reset is generated. To enable the early wake-up interrupt, the
application must:


      - Write EWIF bit of WWDG_SR register to 0, to clear unwanted pending interrupt


      - Write EWI bit of WWDG_CFR register to 1, to enable interrupt


When the down-counter reaches the value 0x40, a watchdog interrupt is generated, and the
corresponding interrupt service routine (ISR) can be used to trigger specific actions (such as
communications or data logging), before resetting the device.


In some applications, the EWI interrupt can be used to manage a software system check
and/or system recovery/graceful degradation, without generating a WWDG reset. In this
case the corresponding ISR must reload the WWDG counter to avoid the WWDG reset,
then trigger the required actions.


The watchdog interrupt is cleared by writing '0' to the EWIF bit in the WWDG_SR register.


_Note:_ _When the watchdog interrupt cannot be served (for example due to a system lock in a_
_higher priority task), the WWDG reset is eventually generated._

## **20.5 WWDG registers**


Refer to _Section 1.2 on page 33_ for a list of abbreviations used in register descriptions.


The peripheral registers can be accessed by halfwords (16-bit) or words (32-bit).


**20.5.1** **WWDG control register (WWDG_CR)**


Address offset: 0x000


Reset value: 0x0000 007F

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|||||||||||||||||


|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|WDGA|T[6:0]|T[6:0]|T[6:0]|T[6:0]|T[6:0]|T[6:0]|T[6:0]|
|||||||||rs|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:8 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 7 **WDGA:** Activation bit

This bit is set by software and only cleared by hardware after a reset. When WDGA = 1, the
watchdog can generate a reset.
0: Watchdog disabled
1: Watchdog enabled


Bits 6:0 **T[6:0]:** 7-bit counter (MSB to LSB)

These bits contain the value of the watchdog counter, decremented every
(4096 x 2 [WDGTB] [[1:0]] ) PCLK cycles. A reset is produced when it is decremented from 0x40 to
0x3F (T6 becomes cleared).


RM0360 Rev 5 481/775



483


**System window watchdog (WWDG)** **RM0360**


**20.5.2** **WWDG configuration register (WWDG_CFR)**


Address offset: 0x004


Reset value: 0x0000 007F

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|||||||||||||||||


|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8 7|Col9|6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|EWI|WDGTB[1:0]|WDGTB[1:0]|W[6:0]|W[6:0]|W[6:0]|W[6:0]|W[6:0]|W[6:0]|W[6:0]|
|||||||rs|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:10 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 9 **EWI:** Early wake-up interrupt enable

Set by software and cleared by hardware after a reset. When set, an interrupt occurs
whenever the counter reaches the value 0x40.


Bits 8:7 **WDGTB[1:0]:** Timer base

The time base of the prescaler can be modified as follows:
00: CK counter clock (PCLK div 4096) div 1
01: CK counter clock (PCLK div 4096) div 2
10: CK counter clock (PCLK div 4096) div 4
11: CK counter clock (PCLK div 4096) div 8


Bits 6:0 **W[6:0]:** 7-bit window value

These bits contain the window value to be compared with the down-counter.


**20.5.3** **WWDG status register (WWDG_SR)**


Address offset: 0x008


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|||||||||||||||||


|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|EWIF|
||||||||||||||||rc_w0|



Bits 31:1 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 0 **EWIF:** Early wake-up interrupt flag

This bit is set by hardware when the counter has reached the value 0x40. It must be cleared
by software by writing 0. Writing 1 has no effect. This bit is also set if the interrupt is not
enabled.


482/775 RM0360 Rev 5


**RM0360** **System window watchdog (WWDG)**


**20.5.4** **WWDG register map**


The following table gives the WWDG register map and reset values.


**Table 60. WWDG register map and reset values**













|Offset|Register<br>name|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0x000|WWDG_CR<br>|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|WDGA<br>|T[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|T[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|T[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|T[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|T[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|T[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|T[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|
|0x000|~~Reset value~~|||||||||||||||||||||||||~~0~~|~~1~~|~~1~~|~~1~~|~~1~~|~~1~~|~~1~~|~~1~~|
|0x004|WWDG_CFR<br>|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|EWI<br>|WDGTB1<br>|WDGTB0<br>|W[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|W[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|W[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|W[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|W[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|W[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|W[6:0]<br><br><br><br><br><br><br>|
|0x004|~~Reset value~~|||||||||||||||||||||||~~0~~|~~0~~|~~0~~|~~1~~|~~1~~|~~1~~|~~1~~|~~1~~|~~1~~|~~1~~|
|0x008|WWDG_SR<br>|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|EWIF<br>|
|0x008|~~Reset value~~||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||~~0~~|


Refer to _Section 2.2 on page 37_ for the register boundary addresses.


RM0360 Rev 5 483/775



483


