**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**

# **18 General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


TIM2 is only available on the STM32C051xx/STM32C071xx/STM32C091xx/92xx devices.

## **18.1 TIM2/TIM3 introduction**


The general-purpose timers consist of a 16-bit/32-bit auto-reload counter driven by a
programmable prescaler.


They may be used for a variety of purposes, including measuring the pulse lengths of input
signals ( _input capture_ ) or generating output waveforms ( _output compare and PWM_ ).


Pulse lengths and waveform periods can be modulated from a few microseconds to several
milliseconds using the timer prescaler and the RCC clock controller prescalers.


The timers are completely independent, and do not share any resources. They can be
synchronized together as described in _Section 18.3.19: Timer synchronization_ .

## **18.2 TIM2/TIM3 main features**


General-purpose TIMx timer features include:


      - 16-bit TIM3 or 32-bit (TIM2) up, down, up/down auto-reload counter.


      - 16-bit programmable prescaler used to divide (also “on the fly”) the counter clock
frequency by any factor between 1 and 65535.


      - Up to 4 independent channels for:


–
Input capture


–
Output compare


–
PWM generation (Edge- and Center-aligned modes)


–
One-pulse mode output


      - Synchronization circuit to control the timer with external signals and to interconnect
several timers.


      - Interrupt/DMA generation on the following events:


–
Update: counter overflow/underflow, counter initialization (by software or
internal/external trigger)


–
Trigger event (counter start, stop, initialization or count by internal/external trigger)


–
Input capture


–
Output compare


      - Supports incremental (quadrature) encoder and hall-sensor circuitry for positioning

purposes


      - Trigger input for external clock or cycle-by-cycle current management


RM0490 Rev 5 443/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Figure 117. General-purpose timer block diagram**
























































|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|
|---|---|---|---|---|
||mpare|1 re|gi|ter|
||||||
|||2 re|gis|ter|
|||||CC3I<br>Output<br>control<br>OC3REF<br>OC3<br>ster|
||||gi|ster|











































444/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**

## **18.3 TIM2/TIM3 functional description**


**18.3.1** **Time-base unit**


The main block of the programmable timer is a 16-bit/32-bit counter with its related autoreload register. The counter can count up, down or both up and down. The counter clock
can be divided by a prescaler.


The counter, the auto-reload register and the prescaler register can be written or read by
software. This is true even when the counter is running.


The time-base unit includes:


      - Counter Register (TIMx_CNT)


      - Prescaler Register (TIMx_PSC)


      - Auto-Reload Register (TIMx_ARR)


The auto-reload register is preloaded. Writing to or reading from the auto-reload register
accesses the preload register. The content of the preload register are transferred into the
shadow register permanently or at each update event (UEV), depending on the auto-reload
preload enable bit (ARPE) in TIMx_CR1 register. The update event is sent when the counter
reaches the overflow (or underflow when downcounting) and if the UDIS bit equals 0 in the
TIMx_CR1 register. It can also be generated by software. The generation of the update
event is described in detail for each configuration.


The counter is clocked by the prescaler output CK_CNT, which is enabled only when the
counter enable bit (CEN) in TIMx_CR1 register is set (refer also to the slave mode controller
description to get more details on counter enabling).


Note that the actual counter enable signal CNT_EN is set 1 clock cycle after CEN.


**Prescaler description**


The prescaler can divide the counter clock frequency by any factor between 1 and 65536. It
is based on a 16-bit counter controlled through a 16-bit/32-bit register (in the TIMx_PSC
register). It can be changed on the fly as this control register is buffered. The new prescaler
ratio is taken into account at the next update event.


_Figure 118_ and _Figure 119_ give some examples of the counter behavior when the prescaler
ratio is changed on the fly:


RM0490 Rev 5 445/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Figure 118. Counter timing diagram with prescaler division change from 1 to 2**







|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|00|00|01|01|01|02|02|02|03|03|
|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|||||||||||
|F8|||||||||||||||
|F8|||||||||||||||
|F8|||||||||||||||
|F8|||||||||||||||
|F8|||||0|1|0|1|0|0|1|0|0|1|


**Figure 119. Counter timing diagram with prescaler division change from 1 to 4**












|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|F8|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|00|00|00|00|01|01|01|01|
|F8|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||0|1|2|3|0|1|2|3|



446/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**18.3.2** **Counter modes**


**Upcounting mode**


In upcounting mode, the counter counts from 0 to the auto-reload value (content of the
TIMx_ARR register), then restarts from 0 and generates a counter overflow event.


An Update event can be generated at each counter overflow or by setting the UG bit in the
TIMx_EGR register (by software or by using the slave mode controller).


The UEV event can be disabled by software by setting the UDIS bit in TIMx_CR1 register.
This is to avoid updating the shadow registers while writing new values in the preload
registers. Then no update event occurs until the UDIS bit has been written to 0. However,
the counter restarts from 0, as well as the counter of the prescaler (but the prescale rate
does not change). In addition, if the URS bit (update request selection) in TIMx_CR1
register is set, setting the UG bit generates an update event UEV but without setting the UIF
flag (thus no interrupt or DMA request is sent). This is to avoid generating both update and
capture interrupts when clearing the counter on the capture event.


When an update event occurs, all the registers are updated and the update flag (UIF bit in
TIMx_SR register) is set (depending on the URS bit):


      - The buffer of the prescaler is reloaded with the preload value (content of the TIMx_PSC
register)


      - The auto-reload shadow register is updated with the preload value (TIMx_ARR)


The following figures show some examples of the counter behavior for different clock
frequencies when TIMx_ARR=0x36.


**Figure 120. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 1**





|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|32|33|34|35|36|00|01|02|03|04|05|06|07|


RM0490 Rev 5 447/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Figure 121. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 2**









**Figure 122. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 4**







448/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**Figure 123. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by N**







**Figure 124. Counter timing diagram, Update event when ARPE=0 (TIMx_ARR not**
**preloaded)**









RM0490 Rev 5 449/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Figure 125. Counter timing diagram, Update event when ARPE=1 (TIMx_ARR**
**preloaded)**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|F1|F2|F3|F4|F5|00|01|02|





**Downcounting mode**





In downcounting mode, the counter counts from the auto-reload value (content of the
TIMx_ARR register) down to 0, then restarts from the auto-reload value and generates a
counter underflow event.


An Update event can be generate at each counter underflow or by setting the UG bit in the
TIMx_EGR register (by software or by using the slave mode controller)


The UEV update event can be disabled by software by setting the UDIS bit in TIMx_CR1
register. This is to avoid updating the shadow registers while writing new values in the
preload registers. Then no update event occurs until UDIS bit has been written to 0.
However, the counter restarts from the current auto-reload value, whereas the counter of the
prescaler restarts from 0 (but the prescale rate doesn’t change).


In addition, if the URS bit (update request selection) in TIMx_CR1 register is set, setting the
UG bit generates an update event UEV but without setting the UIF flag (thus no interrupt or
DMA request is sent). This is to avoid generating both update and capture interrupts when
clearing the counter on the capture event.


When an update event occurs, all the registers are updated and the update flag (UIF bit in
TIMx_SR register) is set (depending on the URS bit):


      - The buffer of the prescaler is reloaded with the preload value (content of the TIMx_PSC
register).


      - The auto-reload active register is updated with the preload value (content of the
TIMx_ARR register). Note that the auto-reload is updated before the counter is
reloaded, so that the next period is the expected one.


450/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


The following figures show some examples of the counter behavior for different clock
frequencies when TIMx_ARR=0x36.


**Figure 126. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 1**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|04|03|02|01|00|36|35|34|33|32|31|30|2F|



**Figure 127. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 2**







RM0490 Rev 5 451/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Figure 128. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 4**







**Figure 129. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by N**











452/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**Figure 130. Counter timing diagram, Update event**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|04|03|02|01|00|36|35|34|33|32|31|30|2F|





**Center-aligned mode (up/down counting)**





In center-aligned mode, the counter counts from 0 to the auto-reload value (content of the
TIMx_ARR register) – 1, generates a counter overflow event, then counts from the autoreload value down to 1 and generates a counter underflow event. Then it restarts counting
from 0.


Center-aligned mode is active when the CMS bits in TIMx_CR1 register are not equal to
'00'. The Output compare interrupt flag of channels configured in output is set when: the
counter counts down (Center aligned mode 1, CMS = "01"), the counter counts up (Center
aligned mode 2, CMS = "10") the counter counts up and down (Center aligned mode 3,
CMS = "11").


In this mode, the direction bit (DIR from TIMx_CR1 register) cannot be written. It is updated
by hardware and gives the current direction of the counter.


The update event can be generated at each counter overflow and at each counter underflow
or by setting the UG bit in the TIMx_EGR register (by software or by using the slave mode
controller) also generates an update event. In this case, the counter restarts counting from
0, as well as the counter of the prescaler.


The UEV update event can be disabled by software by setting the UDIS bit in TIMx_CR1
register. This is to avoid updating the shadow registers while writing new values in the
preload registers. Then no update event occurs until the UDIS bit has been written to 0.
However, the counter continues counting up and down, based on the current auto-reload
value.


In addition, if the URS bit (update request selection) in TIMx_CR1 register is set, setting the
UG bit generates an update event UEV but without setting the UIF flag (thus no interrupt or


RM0490 Rev 5 453/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


DMA request is sent). This is to avoid generating both update and capture interrupt when
clearing the counter on the capture event.


When an update event occurs, all the registers are updated and the update flag (UIF bit in
TIMx_SR register) is set (depending on the URS bit):


      - The buffer of the prescaler is reloaded with the preload value (content of the TIMx_PSC
register).


      - The auto-reload active register is updated with the preload value (content of the
TIMx_ARR register). Note that if the update source is a counter overflow, the autoreload is updated before the counter is reloaded, so that the next period is the expected
one (the counter is loaded with the new value).


The following figures show some examples of the counter behavior for different clock
frequencies.


**Figure 131. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 1, TIMx_ARR=0x6**








|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|03|02|01|00|01|02|03|04|05|06|05|04|03|
|03|02|01|||||||||||



1. Here, center-aligned mode 1 is used (for more details refer to _Section 18.4.1: TIMx control register 1_
_(TIMx_CR1)(x = 2 to 3) on page 488_ ).


454/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**Figure 132. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 2**







**Figure 133. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 4, TIMx_ARR=0x36**







1. Center-aligned mode 2 or 3 is used with an UIF on overflow.





RM0490 Rev 5 455/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Figure 134. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by N**









**Figure 135. Counter timing diagram, Update event with ARPE=1 (counter underflow)**











|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||||||||||
|6|0|5<br>04|03|02|01|00|01|02|03|04|05|06|07|
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|TIMx_ARR|
|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|FD|


456/1027 RM0490 Rev 5




**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**Figure 136. Counter timing diagram, Update event with ARPE=1 (counter overflow)**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|36|35|34|





**18.3.3** **Clock selection**


The counter clock can be provided by the following clock sources:


      - Internal clock (CK_INT)


      - External clock mode1: external input pin (TIx)


      - External clock mode2: external trigger input (ETR)






- Internal trigger inputs (ITRx): using one timer as prescaler for another timer, for
example, Timer X can be configured to act as a prescaler for Timer Y. Refer to _: Using_
_one timer as prescaler for another timer on page 482_ for more details.


**Internal clock source (CK_INT)**


If the slave mode controller is disabled (SMS=000 in the TIMx_SMCR register), then the
CEN, DIR (in the TIMx_CR1 register) and UG bits (in the TIMx_EGR register) are actual
control bits and can be changed only by software (except UG which remains cleared
automatically). As soon as the CEN bit is written to 1, the prescaler is clocked by the internal
clock CK_INT.


_Figure 137_ shows the behavior of the control circuit and the upcounter in normal mode,
without prescaler.


RM0490 Rev 5 457/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Figure 137. Control circuit in normal mode, internal clock divided by 1**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|31|32|33|34|35|36|00|01|02|03|04|05|06|07|



**External clock source mode 1**


This mode is selected when SMS=111 in the TIMx_SMCR register. The counter can count at
each rising or falling edge on a selected input.


**Figure 138. TI2 external clock connection example**















































1. Codes ranging from 01000 to 11111: ITRy.


For example, to configure the upcounter to count in response to a rising edge on the TI2
input, use the following procedure:


1. Select the proper TI2x source (internal or external) with the TI2SEL[3:0] bits in the
TIMx_TISEL register.


2. Configure channel 2 to detect rising edges on the TI2 input by writing CC2S= ‘01 in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register.


3. Configure the input filter duration by writing the IC2F[3:0] bits in the TIMx_CCMR1
register (if no filter is needed, keep IC2F=0000).


458/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


_Note:_ _The capture prescaler is not used for triggering, so it does not need to be configured._


4. Select rising edge polarity by writing CC2P=0 and CC2NP=0 and CC2NP=0 in the
TIMx_CCER register.


5. Configure the timer in external clock mode 1 by writing SMS=111 in the TIMx_SMCR
register.


6. Select TI2 as the input source by writing TS=00110 in the TIMx_SMCR register.


7. Enable the counter by writing CEN=1 in the TIMx_CR1 register.


When a rising edge occurs on TI2, the counter counts once and the TIF flag is set.


The delay between the rising edge on TI2 and the actual clock of the counter is due to the
resynchronization circuit on TI2 input.


**Figure 139. Control circuit in external clock mode 1**


**External clock source mode 2**


This mode is selected by writing ECE=1 in the TIMx_SMCR register.


The counter can count at each rising or falling edge on the external trigger input ETR.


_Figure 140_ gives an overview of the external trigger input block.


RM0490 Rev 5 459/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Figure 140. External trigger input block**

















































For example, to configure the upcounter to count each 2 rising edges on ETR, use the
following procedure:


1. Select the proper ETR source (internal or external) with the ETRSEL[3:0] bits in the
TIMx_AF1 register.


2. As no filter is needed in this example, write ETF[3:0]=0000 in the TIMx_SMCR register.


3. Set the prescaler by writing ETPS[1:0]=01 in the TIMx_SMCR register


4. Select rising edge detection on the ETR pin by writing ETP=0 in the TIMx_SMCR
register


5. Enable external clock mode 2 by writing ECE=1 in the TIMx_SMCR register.


6. Enable the counter by writing CEN=1 in the TIMx_CR1 register.


The counter counts once each 2 ETR rising edges.


The delay between the rising edge on ETR and the actual clock of the counter is due to the
resynchronization circuit on the ETRP signal. As a consequence, the maximum frequency
which can be correctly captured by the counter is at most ¼ of TIMxCLK frequency. When
the ETRP signal is faster, the user should apply a division of the external signal by a proper
ETPS prescaler setting.


460/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**Figure 141. Control circuit in external clock mode 2**







**18.3.4** **Capture/Compare channels**


Each Capture/Compare channel is built around a capture/compare register (including a
shadow register), a input stage for capture (with digital filter, multiplexing and prescaler) and
an output stage (with comparator and output control).


The following figure gives an overview of one Capture/Compare channel.


The input stage samples the corresponding TIx input to generate a filtered signal TIxF.
Then, an edge detector with polarity selection generates a signal (TIxFPx) which can be
used as trigger input by the slave mode controller or as the capture command. It is
prescaled before the capture register (ICxPS).


**Figure 142. Capture/Compare channel (example: channel 1 input stage)**





































The output stage generates an intermediate waveform which is then used for reference:
OCxRef (active high). The polarity acts at the end of the chain.


RM0490 Rev 5 461/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Figure 143. Capture/Compare channel 1 main circuit**























**Figure 144. Output stage of Capture/Compare channel (channel 1)**









































The capture/compare block is made of one preload register and one shadow register. Write
and read always access the preload register.


In capture mode, captures are actually done in the shadow register, which is copied into the
preload register.


In compare mode, the content of the preload register is copied into the shadow register
which is compared to the counter.


462/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**18.3.5** **Input capture mode**


In Input capture mode, the Capture/Compare Registers (TIMx_CCRx) are used to latch the
value of the counter after a transition detected by the corresponding ICx signal. When a
capture occurs, the corresponding CCXIF flag (TIMx_SR register) is set and an interrupt or
a DMA request can be sent if they are enabled. If a capture occurs while the CCxIF flag was
already high, then the over-capture flag CCxOF (TIMx_SR register) is set. CCxIF can be
cleared by software by writing it to 0 or by reading the captured data stored in the
TIMx_CCRx register. CCxOF is cleared when it is written with 0.


The following example shows how to capture the counter value in TIMx_CCR1 when TI1
input rises. To do this, use the following procedure:


1. Select the proper TI1x source (internal or external) with the TI1SEL[3:0] bits in the
TIMx_TISEL register.


2. Select the active input: TIMx_CCR1 must be linked to the TI1 input, so write the CC1S
bits to 01 in the TIMx_CCMR1 register. As soon as CC1S becomes different from 00,
the channel is configured in input and the TIMx_CCR1 register becomes read-only.


3. Program the appropriate input filter duration in relation with the signal connected to the
timer (when the input is one of the TIx (ICxF bits in the TIMx_CCMRx register). Let’s
imagine that, when toggling, the input signal is not stable during at must 5 internal clock
cycles. We must program a filter duration longer than these 5 clock cycles. We can
validate a transition on TI1 when 8 consecutive samples with the new level have been
detected (sampled at f DTS frequency). Then write IC1F bits to 0011 in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register.


4. Select the edge of the active transition on the TI1 channel by writing the CC1P and
CC1NP and CC1NP bits to 000 in the TIMx_CCER register (rising edge in this case).


5. Program the input prescaler. In our example, we wish the capture to be performed at
each valid transition, so the prescaler is disabled (write IC1PS bits to 00 in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register).


6. Enable capture from the counter into the capture register by setting the CC1E bit in the
TIMx_CCER register.


7. If needed, enable the related interrupt request by setting the CC1IE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register, and/or the DMA request by setting the CC1DE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register.


When an input capture occurs:


      - The TIMx_CCR1 register gets the value of the counter on the active transition.


      - CC1IF flag is set (interrupt flag). CC1OF is also set if at least two consecutive captures
occurred whereas the flag was not cleared.


      - An interrupt is generated depending on the CC1IE bit.


      - A DMA request is generated depending on the CC1DE bit.


In order to handle the overcapture, it is recommended to read the data before the
overcapture flag. This is to avoid missing an overcapture which could happen after reading
the flag and before reading the data.


_Note:_ _IC interrupt and/or DMA requests can be generated by software by setting the_
_corresponding CCxG bit in the TIMx_EGR register._


RM0490 Rev 5 463/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**18.3.6** **PWM input mode**


This mode is a particular case of input capture mode. The procedure is the same except:


      - Two ICx signals are mapped on the same TIx input.


      - These 2 ICx signals are active on edges with opposite polarity.


      - One of the two TIxFP signals is selected as trigger input and the slave mode controller
is configured in reset mode.


For example, one can measure the period (in TIMx_CCR1 register) and the duty cycle (in
TIMx_CCR2 register) of the PWM applied on TI1 using the following procedure (depending
on CK_INT frequency and prescaler value):


1. Select the proper TI1x source (internal or external) with the TI1SEL[3:0] bits in the
TIMx_TISEL register.


2. Select the active input for TIMx_CCR1: write the CC1S bits to 01 in the TIMx_CCMR1
register (TI1 selected).


3. Select the active polarity for TI1FP1 (used both for capture in TIMx_CCR1 and counter
clear): write the CC1P to ‘0’ and the CC1NP bit to ‘0’ (active on rising edge).


4. Select the active input for TIMx_CCR2: write the CC2S bits to 10 in the TIMx_CCMR1
register (TI1 selected).


5. Select the active polarity for TI1FP2 (used for capture in TIMx_CCR2): write the CC2P
bit to ‘1’ and the CC2NP bit to ’0’ (active on falling edge).


6. Select the valid trigger input: write the TS bits to 00101 in the TIMx_SMCR register
(TI1FP1 selected).


7. Configure the slave mode controller in reset mode: write the SMS bits to 100 in the
TIMx_SMCR register.


8. Enable the captures: write the CC1E and CC2E bits to ‘1 in the TIMx_CCER register.


**Figure 145. PWM input mode timing**


1. The PWM input mode can be used only with the TIMx_CH1/TIMx_CH2 signals due to the fact that only
TI1FP1 and TI2FP2 are connected to the slave mode controller.


464/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**18.3.7** **Forced output mode**


In output mode (CCxS bits = 00 in the TIMx_CCMRx register), each output compare signal
(OCxREF and then OCx) can be forced to active or inactive level directly by software,
independently of any comparison between the output compare register and the counter.


To force an output compare signal (ocxref/OCx) to its active level, one just needs to write
101 in the OCxM bits in the corresponding TIMx_CCMRx register. Thus ocxref is forced high
(OCxREF is always active high) and OCx get opposite value to CCxP polarity bit.


e.g.: CCxP=0 (OCx active high) => OCx is forced to high level.


ocxref signal can be forced low by writing the OCxM bits to 100 in the TIMx_CCMRx
register.


Anyway, the comparison between the TIMx_CCRx shadow register and the counter is still
performed and allows the flag to be set. Interrupt and DMA requests can be sent
accordingly. This is described in the Output Compare Mode section.


**18.3.8** **Output compare mode**


This function is used to control an output waveform or indicating when a period of time has
elapsed.


When a match is found between the capture/compare register and the counter, the output
compare function:


      - Assigns the corresponding output pin to a programmable value defined by the output
compare mode (OCxM bits in the TIMx_CCMRx register) and the output polarity (CCxP
bit in the TIMx_CCER register). The output pin can keep its level (OCXM=000), be set
active (OCxM=001), be set inactive (OCxM=010) or can toggle (OCxM=011) on match.


      - Sets a flag in the interrupt status register (CCxIF bit in the TIMx_SR register).


      - Generates an interrupt if the corresponding interrupt mask is set (CCXIE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register).


      - Sends a DMA request if the corresponding enable bit is set (CCxDE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register, CCDS bit in the TIMx_CR2 register for the DMA request
selection).


The TIMx_CCRx registers can be programmed with or without preload registers using the
OCxPE bit in the TIMx_CCMRx register.


In output compare mode, the update event UEV has no effect on ocxref and OCx output.
The timing resolution is one count of the counter. Output compare mode can also be used to
output a single pulse (in One-pulse mode).


**Procedure**


1. Select the counter clock (internal, external, prescaler).


2. Write the desired data in the TIMx_ARR and TIMx_CCRx registers.


3. Set the CCxIE and/or CCxDE bits if an interrupt and/or a DMA request is to be
generated.


4. Select the output mode. For example, one must write OCxM=011, OCxPE=0, CCxP=0
and CCxE=1 to toggle OCx output pin when CNT matches CCRx, CCRx preload is not
used, OCx is enabled and active high.


5. Enable the counter by setting the CEN bit in the TIMx_CR1 register.


RM0490 Rev 5 465/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


The TIMx_CCRx register can be updated at any time by software to control the output
waveform, provided that the preload register is not enabled (OCxPE=0, else TIMx_CCRx
shadow register is updated only at the next update event UEV). An example is given in
_Figure 146_ .


**Figure 146. Output compare mode, toggle on OC1**









**18.3.9** **PWM mode**









Pulse width modulation mode permits to generate a signal with a frequency determined by
the value of the TIMx_ARR register and a duty cycle determined by the value of the
TIMx_CCRx register.


The PWM mode can be selected independently on each channel (one PWM per OCx
output) by writing 110 (PWM mode 1) or ‘111 (PWM mode 2) in the OCxM bits in the
TIMx_CCMRx register. The corresponding preload register must be enabled by setting the
OCxPE bit in the TIMx_CCMRx register, and eventually the auto-reload preload register (in
upcounting or center-aligned modes) by setting the ARPE bit in the TIMx_CR1 register.


As the preload registers are transferred to the shadow registers only when an update event
occurs, before starting the counter, all registers must be initialized by setting the UG bit in
the TIMx_EGR register.


OCx polarity is software programmable using the CCxP bit in the TIMx_CCER register. It
can be programmed as active high or active low. OCx output is enabled by the CCxE bit in
the TIMx_CCER register. Refer to the TIMx_CCERx register description for more details.


In PWM mode (1 or 2), TIMx_CNT and TIMx_CCRx are always compared to determine
whether TIMx_CCRx ≤ TIMx_CNT or TIMx_CNT ≤ TIMx_CCRx (depending on the direction
of the counter). However, to comply with the OCREF_CLR functionality (OCREF can be


466/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


cleared by an external event through the ETR signal until the next PWM period), the
OCREF signal is asserted only:


      - When the result of the comparison or


      - When the output compare mode (OCxM bits in TIMx_CCMRx register) switches from
the “frozen” configuration (no comparison, OCxM=‘000) to one of the PWM modes
(OCxM=‘110 or ‘111).


This forces the PWM by software while the timer is running.


The timer is able to generate PWM in edge-aligned mode or center-aligned mode
depending on the CMS bits in the TIMx_CR1 register.


**PWM edge-aligned mode**


Upcounting configuration


Upcounting is active when the DIR bit in the TIMx_CR1 register is low. Refer to _Upcounting_
_mode on page 447_ .


In the following example, we consider PWM mode 1. The reference PWM signal OCxREF is
high as long as TIMx_CNT <TIMx_CCRx else it becomes low. If the compare value in
TIMx_CCRx is greater than the auto-reload value (in TIMx_ARR) then OCxREF is held at ‘1.
If the compare value is 0 then OCxREF is held at ‘0. _Figure 147_ shows some edge-aligned
PWM waveforms in an example where TIMx_ARR=8.


**Figure 147. Edge-aligned PWM waveforms (ARR=8)**




|0|1|2|3|4|5|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||
|||||||


|Col1|7|8|0|1|
|---|---|---|---|---|
||7||||
||||||
||||||
||||||





RM0490 Rev 5 467/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Downcounting configuration**


Downcounting is active when DIR bit in TIMx_CR1 register is high. Refer to _Downcounting_
_mode on page 450_ .


In PWM mode 1, the reference signal ocxref is low as long as TIMx_CNT>TIMx_CCRx else
it becomes high. If the compare value in TIMx_CCRx is greater than the auto-reload value in
TIMx_ARR, then ocxref is held at 100%. PWM is not possible in this mode.


**PWM center-aligned mode**


Center-aligned mode is active when the CMS bits in TIMx_CR1 register are different from
‘00 (all the remaining configurations having the same effect on the ocxref/OCx signals). The
compare flag is set when the counter counts up, when it counts down or both when it counts
up and down depending on the CMS bits configuration. The direction bit (DIR) in the
TIMx_CR1 register is updated by hardware and must not be changed by software. Refer to
_Center-aligned mode (up/down counting) on page 453_ .


_Figure 148_ shows some center-aligned PWM waveforms in an example where:


      - TIMx_ARR=8,


      - PWM mode is the PWM mode 1,


      - The flag is set when the counter counts down corresponding to the center-aligned
mode 1 selected for CMS=01 in TIMx_CR1 register.


468/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**Figure 148. Center-aligned PWM waveforms (ARR=8)**








|Col1|7|8|
|---|---|---|
||||
||||
||||
||||
|CMS=01<br>CMS=10<br>CMS=11|CMS=01<br>CMS=10<br>CMS=11||
|CMS=01<br>CMS=10<br>CMS=11|CMS=01<br>CMS=10<br>CMS=11||



Hints on using center-aligned mode:


- When starting in center-aligned mode, the current up-down configuration is used. It
means that the counter counts up or down depending on the value written in the DIR bit
in the TIMx_CR1 register. Moreover, the DIR and CMS bits must not be changed at the
same time by the software.


- Writing to the counter while running in center-aligned mode is not recommended as it
can lead to unexpected results. In particular:


–
The direction is not updated if a value greater than the auto-reload value is written
in the counter (TIMx_CNT>TIMx_ARR). For example, if the counter was counting
up, it continues to count up.


–
The direction is updated if 0 or the TIMx_ARR value is written in the counter but no
Update Event UEV is generated.


- The safest way to use center-aligned mode is to generate an update by software
(setting the UG bit in the TIMx_EGR register) just before starting the counter and not to
write the counter while it is running.


RM0490 Rev 5 469/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**18.3.10** **Asymmetric PWM mode**


Asymmetric mode allows two center-aligned PWM signals to be generated with a
programmable phase shift. While the frequency is determined by the value of the
TIMx_ARR register, the duty cycle and the phase-shift are determined by a pair of
TIMx_CCRx registers. One register controls the PWM during up-counting, the second
during down counting, so that PWM is adjusted every half PWM cycle:


      - OC1REFC (or OC2REFC) is controlled by TIMx_CCR1 and TIMx_CCR2


      - OC3REFC (or OC4REFC) is controlled by TIMx_CCR3 and TIMx_CCR4


Asymmetric PWM mode can be selected independently on two channels (one OCx output
per pair of CCR registers) by writing ‘1110’ (Asymmetric PWM mode 1) or ‘1111’
(Asymmetric PWM mode 2) in the OCxM bits in the TIMx_CCMRx register.


_Note:_ _The OCxM[3:0] bit field is split into two parts for compatibility reasons, the most significant_
_bit is not contiguous with the 3 least significant ones._


When a given channel is used as asymmetric PWM channel, its secondary channel can also
be used. For instance, if an OC1REFC signal is generated on channel 1 (Asymmetric PWM
mode 1), it is possible to output either the OC2REF signal on channel 2, or an OC2REFC
signal resulting from asymmetric PWM mode 2.


_Figure 149_ shows an example of signals that can be generated using Asymmetric PWM
mode (channels 1 to 4 are configured in Asymmetric PWM mode 1).


**Figure 149. Generation of 2 phase-shifted PWM signals with 50% duty cycle**







**18.3.11** **Combined PWM mode**





Combined PWM mode allows two edge or center-aligned PWM signals to be generated with
programmable delay and phase shift between respective pulses. While the frequency is
determined by the value of the TIMx_ARR register, the duty cycle and delay are determined
by the two TIMx_CCRx registers. The resulting signals, OCxREFC, are made of an OR or
AND logical combination of two reference PWMs:


– OC1REFC (or OC2REFC) is controlled by TIMx_CCR1 and TIMx_CCR2


– OC3REFC (or OC4REFC) is controlled by TIMx_CCR3 and TIMx_CCR4


Combined PWM mode can be selected independently on two channels (one OCx output per
pair of CCR registers) by writing ‘1100’ (Combined PWM mode 1) or ‘1101’ (Combined PWM
mode 2) in the OCxM bits in the TIMx_CCMRx register.


470/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


When a given channel is used as combined PWM channel, its secondary channel must be
configured in the opposite PWM mode (for instance, one in Combined PWM mode 1 and the
other in Combined PWM mode 2).


_Note:_ _The OCxM[3:0] bit field is split into two parts for compatibility reasons, the most significant_
_bit is not contiguous with the 3 least significant ones._


_Figure 150_ shows an example of signals that can be generated using Asymmetric PWM
mode, obtained with the following configuration:


      - Channel 1 is configured in Combined PWM mode 2,


      - Channel 2 is configured in PWM mode 1,


      - Channel 3 is configured in Combined PWM mode 2,


      - Channel 4 is configured in PWM mode 1


**Figure 150. Combined PWM mode on channels 1 and 3**


**18.3.12** **Clearing the OCxREF signal on an external event**


The OCxREF signal of a given channel can be cleared when a high level is applied on the
ocref_clr_int input (OCxCE enable bit in the corresponding TIMx_CCMRx register set to 1).
OCxREF remains low until the next transition to the active state, on the following PWM
cycle. This function can only be used in Output compare and PWM modes. It does not work
in Forced mode.


OCREF_CLR_INPUT can be selected between the OCREF_CLR input and ETRF (ETR
after the filter) by configuring the OCCS bit in the TIMx_SMCR register.


RM0490 Rev 5 471/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


The OCxREF signal for a given channel can be reset by applying a high level on the ETRF
input (OCxCE enable bit set to 1 in the corresponding TIMx_CCMRx register). OCxREF
remains low until the next transition to the active state, on the following PWM cycle.


This function can be used only in the output compare and PWM modes. It does not work in
forced mode.


For example, the OCxREF signal can be connected to the output of a comparator to be
used for current handling. In this case, ETR must be configured as follows:


1. The external trigger prescaler should be kept off: bits ETPS[1:0] in the TIMx_SMCR
register are cleared to 00.


2. The external clock mode 2 must be disabled: bit ECE in the TIM1_SMCR register is
cleared to 0.


3. The external trigger polarity (ETP) and the external trigger filter (ETF) can be
configured according to the application’s needs.


_Figure 151_ shows the behavior of the OCxREF signal when the ETRF input becomes high,
for both values of the OCxCE enable bit. In this example, the timer TIMx is programmed in
PWM mode.


**Figure 151. Clearing TIMx OCxREF**


_Note:_ _In case of a PWM with a 100% duty cycle (if CCRx>ARR), OCxREF is enabled again at the_
_next counter overflow._


472/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**18.3.13** **One-pulse mode**


One-pulse mode (OPM) is a particular case of the previous modes. It allows the counter to
be started in response to a stimulus and to generate a pulse with a programmable length
after a programmable delay.


Starting the counter can be controlled through the slave mode controller. Generating the
waveform can be done in output compare mode or PWM mode. One-pulse mode is selected
by setting the OPM bit in the TIMx_CR1 register. This makes the counter stop automatically
at the next update event UEV.


A pulse can be correctly generated only if the compare value is different from the counter
initial value. Before starting (when the timer is waiting for the trigger), the configuration must
be:


      - CNT<CCRx ≤ ARR (in particular, 0<CCRx),


**Figure 152. Example of one-pulse mode.**







For example one may want to generate a positive pulse on OC1 with a length of t PULSE and
after a delay of t DELAY as soon as a positive edge is detected on the TI2 input pin.


Let’s use TI2FP2 as trigger 1:


1. Select the proper TI2x source (internal or external) with the TI2SEL[3:0] bits in the
TIMx_TISEL register.


2. Map TI2FP2 on TI2 by writing CC2S=01 in the TIMx_CCMR1 register.


3. TI2FP2 must detect a rising edge, write CC2P=0 and CC2NP=’0’ in the TIMx_CCER
register.


4. Configure TI2FP2 as trigger for the slave mode controller (TRGI) by writing TS=00110
in the TIMx_SMCR register.


5. TI2FP2 is used to start the counter by writing SMS to ‘110 in the TIMx_SMCR register
(trigger mode).


RM0490 Rev 5 473/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


The OPM waveform is defined by writing the compare registers (taking into account the
clock frequency and the counter prescaler).


      - The t DELAY is defined by the value written in the TIMx_CCR1 register.


      - The t PULSE is defined by the difference between the auto-reload value and the compare
value (TIMx_ARR - TIMx_CCR1).


      - Let’s say one want to build a waveform with a transition from ‘0 to ‘1 when a compare
match occurs and a transition from ‘1 to ‘0 when the counter reaches the auto-reload
value. To do this PWM mode 2 must be enabled by writing OC1M=111 in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register. Optionally the preload registers can be enabled by writing
OC1PE=1 in the TIMx_CCMR1 register and ARPE in the TIMx_CR1 register. In this
case one has to write the compare value in the TIMx_CCR1 register, the auto-reload
value in the TIMx_ARR register, generate an update by setting the UG bit and wait for
external trigger event on TI2. CC1P is written to ‘0 in this example.


In our example, the DIR and CMS bits in the TIMx_CR1 register should be low.


Since only 1 pulse (Single mode) is needed, a 1 must be written in the OPM bit in the
TIMx_CR1 register to stop the counter at the next update event (when the counter rolls over
from the auto-reload value back to 0). When OPM bit in the TIMx_CR1 register is set to '0',
so the Repetitive Mode is selected.


**Particular case: OCx fast enable:**


In One-pulse mode, the edge detection on TIx input set the CEN bit which enables the
counter. Then the comparison between the counter and the compare value makes the
output toggle. But several clock cycles are needed for these operations and it limits the
minimum delay t DELAY min we can get.


If one wants to output a waveform with the minimum delay, the OCxFE bit can be set in the
TIMx_CCMRx register. Then OCxRef (and OCx) is forced in response to the stimulus,
without taking in account the comparison. Its new level is the same as if a compare match
had occurred. OCxFE acts only if the channel is configured in PWM1 or PWM2 mode.


**18.3.14 Retriggerable one pulse mode**


This mode allows the counter to be started in response to a stimulus and to generate a
pulse with a programmable length, but with the following differences with Non-retriggerable
one pulse mode described in _Section 18.3.13_ :


      - The pulse starts as soon as the trigger occurs (no programmable delay)


      - The pulse is extended if a new trigger occurs before the previous one is completed


The timer must be in Slave mode, with the bits SMS[3:0] = ‘1000’ (Combined Reset + trigger
mode) in the TIMx_SMCR register, and the OCxM[3:0] bits set to ‘1000’ or ‘1001’ for
Retriggerable OPM mode 1 or 2.


If the timer is configured in Up-counting mode, the corresponding CCRx must be set to 0
(the ARR register sets the pulse length). If the timer is configured in Down-counting mode
CCRx must be above or equal to ARR.


_Note:_ _In retriggerable one pulse mode, the CCxIF flag is not significant._


_The OCxM[3:0] and SMS[3:0] bit fields are split into two parts for compatibility reasons, the_
_most significant bit is not contiguous with the 3 least significant ones._


_This mode must not be used with center-aligned PWM modes. It is mandatory to have_
_CMS[1:0] = 00 in TIMx_CR1._


474/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**Figure 153. Retriggerable one-pulse mode**





**18.3.15** **Encoder interface mode**


To select Encoder Interface mode write SMS=‘001 in the TIMx_SMCR register if the counter
is counting on TI2 edges only, SMS=010 if it is counting on TI1 edges only and SMS=011 if
it is counting on both TI1 and TI2 edges.


Select the TI1 and TI2 polarity by programming the CC1P and CC2P bits in the TIMx_CCER
register. CC1NP and CC2NP must be kept cleared. When needed, the input filter can be
programmed as well. CC1NP and CC2NP must be kept low.


The two inputs TI1 and TI2 are used to interface to an incremental encoder. Refer to
_Table 83_ . The counter is clocked by each valid transition on TI1FP1 or TI2FP2 (TI1 and TI2
after input filter and polarity selection, TI1FP1=TI1 if not filtered and not inverted,
TI2FP2=TI2 if not filtered and not inverted) assuming that it is enabled (CEN bit in
TIMx_CR1 register written to ‘1). The sequence of transitions of the two inputs is evaluated
and generates count pulses as well as the direction signal. Depending on the sequence the
counter counts up or down, the DIR bit in the TIMx_CR1 register is modified by hardware
accordingly. The DIR bit is calculated at each transition on any input (TI1 or TI2), whatever
the counter is counting on TI1 only, TI2 only or both TI1 and TI2.


Encoder interface mode acts simply as an external clock with direction selection. This
means that the counter just counts continuously between 0 and the auto-reload value in the
TIMx_ARR register (0 to ARR or ARR down to 0 depending on the direction). So the
TIMx_ARR must be configured before starting. In the same way, the capture, compare,
prescaler, trigger output features continue to work as normal.


In this mode, the counter is modified automatically following the speed and the direction of
the ~~q~~ uadrature encoder and its content, therefore, always represents the encoder’s position.
The count direction correspond to the rotation direction of the connected sensor. The table
summarizes the possible combinations, assuming TI1 and TI2 do not switch at the same
time.


RM0490 Rev 5 475/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Table 83. Counting direction versus encoder signals**










|Active edge|Level on opposite<br>signal (TI1FP1 for<br>TI2, TI2FP2 for TI1)|TI1FP1 signal|Col4|TI2FP2 signal|Col6|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**Active edge**|**Level on opposite**<br>**signal (TI1FP1 for**<br>**TI2, TI2FP2 for TI1)**|**Rising**|**Falling**|**Rising**|**Falling**|
|Counting on<br>TI1 only|High|Down|Up|No Count|No Count|
|Counting on<br>TI1 only|Low|Up|Down|No Count|No Count|
|Counting on<br>TI2 only|High|No Count|No Count|Up|Down|
|Counting on<br>TI2 only|Low|No Count|No Count|Down|Up|
|Counting on<br>TI1 and TI2|High|Down|Up|Up|Down|
|Counting on<br>TI1 and TI2|Low|Up|Down|Down|Up|



An external incremental encoder can be connected directly to the MCU without external
interface logic. However, comparators are normally be used to convert the encoder’s
differential outputs to digital signals. This greatly increases noise immunity. The third
encoder output which indicate the mechanical zero position, may be connected to an
external interrupt input and trigger a counter reset.


_Figure 154_ gives an example of counter operation, showing count signal generation and
direction control. It also shows how input jitter is compensated where both edges are
selected. This might occur if the sensor is positioned near to one of the switching points. For
this example we assume that the configuration is the following:


- CC1S= 01 (TIMx_CCMR1 register, TI1FP1 mapped on TI1)


- CC2S= 01 (TIMx_CCMR1 register, TI2FP2 mapped on TI2)


- CC1P and CC1NP = ‘0’ (TIMx_CCER register, TI1FP1 noninverted, TI1FP1=TI1)


- CC2P and CC2NP = ‘0’ (TIMx_CCER register, TI2FP2 noninverted, TI2FP2=TI2)


- SMS= 011 (TIMx_SMCR register, both inputs are active on both rising and falling
edges)


- CEN= 1 (TIMx_CR1 register, Counter is enabled)


**Figure 154. Example of counter operation in encoder interface mode**





_Figure 155_ gives an example of counter behavior when TI1FP1 polarity is inverted (same
configuration as above except CC1P=1).


476/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**Figure 155. Example of encoder interface mode with TI1FP1 polarity inverted**







The timer, when configured in Encoder Interface mode provides information on the sensor’s
current position. Dynamic information can be obtained (speed, acceleration, deceleration)
by measuring the period between two encoder events using a second timer configured in
capture mode. The output of the encoder which indicates the mechanical zero can be used
for this purpose. Depending on the time between two events, the counter can also be read
at regular times. This can be done by latching the counter value into a third input capture
register if available (then the capture signal must be periodic and can be generated by
another timer). when available, it is also possible to read its value through a DMA request
generated by a Real-Time clock.


**18.3.16** **UIF bit remapping**


The IUFREMAP bit in the TIMx_CR1 register forces a continuous copy of the update
interrupt flag (UIF) into bit 31 of the timer counter register’s bit 31 (TIMxCNT[31]). This
permits to atomically read both the counter value and a potential roll-over condition signaled
by the UIFCPY flag. It eases the calculation of angular speed by avoiding race conditions
caused, for instance, by a processing shared between a background task (counter reading)
and an interrupt (update interrupt).


There is no latency between the UIF and UIFCPY flag assertions.


In 32-bit timer implementations, when the IUFREMAP bit is set, bit 31 of the counter is
overwritten by the UIFCPY flag upon read access (the counter’s most significant bit is only
accessible in write mode).


**18.3.17** **Timer input XOR function**


The TI1S bit in the TIM1xx_CR2 register, allows the input filter of channel 1 to be connected
to the output of a XOR gate, combining the three input pins TIMx_CH1 to TIMx_CH3.


The XOR output can be used with all the timer input functions such as trigger or input
capture.


An example of this feature used to interface Hall sensors is given in _Section 17.3.25:_
_Interfacing with Hall sensors on page 396_ .


RM0490 Rev 5 477/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**18.3.18** **Timers and external trigger synchronization**


The TIMx Timers can be synchronized with an external trigger in several modes: Reset
mode, Gated mode and Trigger mode.


**Slave mode: Reset mode**


The counter and its prescaler can be reinitialized in response to an event on a trigger input.
Moreover, if the URS bit from the TIMx_CR1 register is low, an update event UEV is
generated. Then all the preloaded registers (TIMx_ARR, TIMx_CCRx) are updated.


In the following example, the upcounter is cleared in response to a rising edge on TI1 input:


1. Configure the channel 1 to detect rising edges on TI1. Configure the input filter duration
(in this example, we do not need any filter, so we keep IC1F=0000). The capture
prescaler is not used for triggering, so it does not need to be configured. The CC1S bits
select the input capture source only, CC1S = 01 in the TIMx_CCMR1 register. Write
CC1P=0 and CC1NP=0 in TIMx_CCER register to validate the polarity (and detect
rising edges only).


2. Configure the timer in reset mode by writing SMS=100 in TIMx_SMCR register. Select
TI1 as the input source by writing TS=00101 in TIMx_SMCR register.


3. Start the counter by writing CEN=1 in the TIMx_CR1 register.


The counter starts counting on the internal clock, then behaves normally until TI1 rising
edge. When TI1 rises, the counter is cleared and restarts from 0. In the meantime, the
trigger flag is set (TIF bit in the TIMx_SR register) and an interrupt request, or a DMA
request can be sent if enabled (depending on the TIE and TDE bits in TIMx_DIER register).


The following figure shows this behavior when the auto-reload register TIMx_ARR=0x36.
The delay between the rising edge on TI1 and the actual reset of the counter is due to the
resynchronization circuit on TI1 input.


**Figure 156. Control circuit in reset mode**








|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|30|31|32|33|34|35|36|00|01|02|03|00|01|02|03|



**Slave mode: Gated mode**


The counter can be enabled depending on the level of a selected input.


In the following example, the upcounter counts only when TI1 input is low:


478/1027 RM0490 Rev 5




**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


1. Configure the channel 1 to detect low levels on TI1. Configure the input filter duration
(in this example, we do not need any filter, so we keep IC1F=0000). The capture
prescaler is not used for triggering, so it does not need to be configured. The CC1S bits
select the input capture source only, CC1S=01 in TIMx_CCMR1 register. Write
CC1P=1 and CC1NP=0 in TIMx_CCER register to validate the polarity (and detect low
level only).


2. Configure the timer in gated mode by writing SMS=101 in TIMx_SMCR register. Select
TI1 as the input source by writing TS=00101 in TIMx_SMCR register.


3. Enable the counter by writing CEN=1 in the TIMx_CR1 register (in gated mode, the
counter doesn’t start if CEN=0, whatever is the trigger input level).


The counter starts counting on the internal clock as long as TI1 is low and stops as soon as
TI1 becomes high. The TIF flag in the TIMx_SR register is set both when the counter starts
or stops.


The delay between the rising edge on TI1 and the actual stop of the counter is due to the
resynchronization circuit on TI1 input.


**Figure 157. Control circuit in gated mode**







1. The configuration “CCxP=CCxNP=1” (detection of both rising and falling edges) does not have any effect
in gated mode because gated mode acts on a level and not on an edge.


_Note:_ _The configuration “CCxP=CCxNP=1” (detection of both rising and falling edges) does not_
_have any effect in gated mode because gated mode acts on a level and not on an edge._


**Slave mode: Trigger mode**


The counter can start in response to an event on a selected input.


In the following example, the upcounter starts in response to a rising edge on TI2 input:


1. Configure the channel 2 to detect rising edges on TI2. Configure the input filter duration
(in this example, we do not need any filter, so we keep IC2F=0000). The capture
prescaler is not used for triggering, so it does not need to be configured. CC2S bits are
selecting the input capture source only, CC2S=01 in TIMx_CCMR1 register. Write


RM0490 Rev 5 479/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


CC2P=1 and CC2NP=0 in TIMx_CCER register to validate the polarity (and detect low
level only).


2. Configure the timer in trigger mode by writing SMS=110 in TIMx_SMCR register. Select
TI2 as the input source by writing TS=00110 in TIMx_SMCR register.


When a rising edge occurs on TI2, the counter starts counting on the internal clock and the
TIF flag is set.


The delay between the rising edge on TI2 and the actual start of the counter is due to the
resynchronization circuit on TI2 input.


**Figure 158. Control circuit in trigger mode**







**Slave mode: Combined reset + trigger mode**





In this case, a rising edge of the selected trigger input (TRGI) reinitializes the counter,
generates an update of the registers, and starts the counter.


This mode is used for one-pulse mode.


**Slave mode: External Clock mode 2 + trigger mode**


The external clock mode 2 can be used in addition to another slave mode (except external
clock mode 1 and encoder mode). In this case, the ETR signal is used as external clock
input, and another input can be selected as trigger input when operating in reset mode,
gated mode or trigger mode. It is recommended not to select ETR as TRGI through the TS
bits of TIMx_SMCR register.


In the following example, the upcounter is incremented at each rising edge of the ETR
signal as soon as a rising edge of TI1 occurs:


480/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


1. Configure the external trigger input circuit by programming the TIMx_SMCR register as
follows:


– ETF = 0000: no filter


–
ETPS=00: prescaler disabled


–
ETP=0: detection of rising edges on ETR and ECE=1 to enable the external clock
mode 2.


2. Configure the channel 1 as follows, to detect rising edges on TI:


– IC1F=0000: no filter.


–
The capture prescaler is not used for triggering and does not need to be
configured.


–
CC1S=01in TIMx_CCMR1 register to select only the input capture source


–
CC1P=0 and CC1NP=0 in TIMx_CCER register to validate the polarity (and detect
rising edge only).


3. Configure the timer in trigger mode by writing SMS=110 in TIMx_SMCR register. Select
TI1 as the input source by writing TS=00101 in TIMx_SMCR register.


A rising edge on TI1 enables the counter and sets the TIF flag. The counter then counts on
ETR rising edges.


The delay between the rising edge of the ETR signal and the actual reset of the counter is
due to the resynchronization circuit on ETRP input.


**Figure 159. Control circuit in external clock mode 2 + trigger mode**



**18.3.19** **Timer synchronization**




|Col1|Col2|
|---|---|
|||
|||
|||





The TIMx timers are linked together internally for timer synchronization or chaining. When
one Timer is configured in Master Mode, it can reset, start, stop or clock the counter of
another Timer configured in Slave Mode.


_Figure 160: Master/Slave timer example_ and _Figure 161: Master/slave connection example_
_with 1 channel only timers_ present an overview of the trigger selection and the master mode
selection blocks.


RM0490 Rev 5 481/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Figure 160. Master/Slave timer example**

















**Figure 161. Master/slave connection example with 1 channel only timers**





















_Note:_ _The timers with one channel only (see Figure 161) do not feature a master mode. However,_
_the OC1 output signal can be used to trigger some other timers (including timers described_
_in other sections of this document). Check the “TIMx internal trigger connection” table of any_
_TIMx_SMCR register on the device to identify which timers can be targeted as slave._
_The OC1 signal pulse width must be programmed to be at least 2 clock cycles of the_
_destination timer, to make sure the slave timer detects the trigger._
_For instance, if the destination's timer CK_INT clock is 4 times slower than the source timer,_
_the OC1 pulse width must be 8 clock cycles._


**Using one timer as prescaler for another timer**


For example, TIMy can be configured to act as a prescaler for TIMz. Refer to _Figure 160_ . To
do this:


482/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


1. Configure TIMy in master mode so that it outputs a periodic trigger signal on each
update event UEV. If MMS=010 is written in the TIMy_CR2 register, a rising edge is
output on TRGO each time an update event is generated.


2. To connect the TRGO output of TIMy to TIMz, TIMz must be configured in slave mode
using ITR as internal trigger. This is selected through the TS bits in the TIMz_SMCR
register (writing TS=00).


3. Then the slave mode controller must be put in external clock mode 1 (write SMS=111 in
the TIMz_SMCR register). This causes TIMz to be clocked by the rising edge of the
periodic TIMy trigger signal (which correspond to the TIMy counter overflow).


4. Finally both timers must be enabled by setting their respective CEN bits (TIMx_CR1
register).


_Note:_ _If OCx is selected on TIM_ y _as the trigger output (MMS=1xx), its rising edge is used to clock_
_the counter of TIM_ z _._


**Using one timer to enable another timer**


In this example, we control the enable of TIMz with the output compare 1 of Timer y. Refer
to _Figure 160_ for connections. TIMz counts on the divided internal clock only when OC1REF
of TIMy is high. Both counter clock frequencies are divided by 3 by the prescaler compared
to CK_INT (f CK_CNT = f CK_INT /3).

1. Configure TIMy master mode to send its Output Compare 1 Reference (OC1REF)
signal as trigger output (MMS=100 in the TIMy_CR2 register).


2. Configure the TIMy OC1REF waveform (TIMy_CCMR1 register).


3. Configure TIMz to get the input trigger from TIMy (TS=00 in the TIMz_SMCR register).


4. Configure TIMz in gated mode (SMS=101 in TIMz_SMCR register).


5. Enable TIMz by writing ‘1 in the CEN bit (TIMz_CR1 register).


6. Start TIMy by writing ‘1 in the CEN bit (TIMy_CR1 register).


_Note:_ _The counter_ z _clock is not synchronized with counter 1, this mode only affects the TIM_ z
_counter enable signal._


**Figure 162. Gating TIM** z **with OC1REF of TIM** y







|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
||||||||||||
|FC||FD||FE|FE|FF|FF||00|01|
|FC|||||||||||
|FC|||3046|3046|3047|3047|||||
|FC|||||||||||


In the example in _Figure 162_, the TIMz counter and prescaler are not initialized before being
started. So they start counting from their current value. It is possible to start from a given
value by resetting both timers before starting TIMy. Then any value can be written in the
timer counters. The timers can easily be reset by software using the UG bit in the
TIMx_EGR registers.


RM0490 Rev 5 483/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


In the next example (refer to _Figure 163_ ), we synchronize TIMy and TIMz. TIMy is the
master and starts from 0. TIMz is the slave and starts from 0xE7. The prescaler ratio is the
same for both timers. TIMz stops when TIMy is disabled by writing ‘0 to the CEN bit in the
TIMy_CR1 register:


1. Configure TIMy master mode to send its Output Compare 1 Reference (OC1REF)
signal as trigger output (MMS=100 in the TIMy_CR2 register).


2. Configure the TIMy OC1REF waveform (TIMy_CCMR1 register).


3. Configure TIMz to get the input trigger from TIMy (TS=00 in the TIMz_SMCR register).


4. Configure TIMz in gated mode (SMS=101 in TIMz_SMCR register).


5. Reset TIMy by writing ‘1 in UG bit (TIMy_EGR register).


6. Reset TIMz by writing ‘1 in UG bit (TIMz_EGR register).


7. Initialize TIMz to 0xE7 by writing ‘0xE7’ in the TIMz counter (TIMz_CNTL).


8. Enable TIMz by writing ‘1 in the CEN bit (TIMz_CR1 register).


9. Start TIMy by writing ‘1 in the CEN bit (TIMy_CR1 register).


10. Stop TIMy by writing ‘0 in the CEN bit (TIMy_CR1 register).


**Figure 163. Gating TIM** z **with Enable of TIM** y












|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||
|||||||
|||00||01||
|||||||
||00|E7||E8||
|||||||
|||||||
|||||||



**Using one timer to start another timer**


In this example, we set the enable of Timer z with the update event of Timer y. Refer to
_Figure 160_ for connections. Timer z starts counting from its current value (which can be nonzero) on the divided internal clock as soon as the update event is generated by Timer 1.
When Timer z receives the trigger signal its CEN bit is automatically set and the counter
counts until we write ‘0 to the CEN bit in the TIMz_CR1 register. Both counter clock
frequencies are divided by 3 by the prescaler compared to CK_INT (f CK_CNT = f CK_INT /3).

1. Configure TIMy master mode to send its Update Event (UEV) as trigger output
(MMS=010 in the TIMy_CR2 register).


2. Configure the TIMy period (TIMy_ARR registers).


3. Configure TIMz to get the input trigger from TIMy (TS=00 in the TIMz_SMCR register).


4. Configure TIMz in trigger mode (SMS=110 in TIMz_SMCR register).


5. Start TIMy by writing ‘1 in the CEN bit (TIMy_CR1 register).


484/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**Figure 164. Triggering TIM** z **with update of TIM** y






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|FD|FE|FF||00|01|02|



As in the previous example, both counters can be initialized before starting counting.
_Figure 165_ shows the behavior with the same configuration as in _Figure 164_ but in trigger
mode instead of gated mode (SMS=110 in the TIMz_SMCR register).


**Figure 165. Triggering TIM** z **with Enable of TIM** y














|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||
|||00||01|01|
|||||||
||00|E7||E8|E9|
|||||||
|||||||



**Starting 2 timers synchronously in response to an external trigger**





In this example, we set the enable of TIMy when its TI1 input rises, and the enable of TIMz
with the enable of TIMy. Refer to _Figure 160_ for connections. To ensure the counters are
aligned, TIMy must be configured in Master/Slave mode (slave with respect to TI1, master
with respect to TIMz):


RM0490 Rev 5 485/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


1. Configure TIMy master mode to send its Enable as trigger output (MMS=001 in the
TIMy_CR2 register).


2. Configure TIMy slave mode to get the input trigger from TI1 (TS=00100 in the
TIMy_SMCR register).


3. Configure TIMy in trigger mode (SMS=110 in the TIMy_SMCR register).


4. Configure the TIMy in Master/Slave mode by writing MSM=1 (TIMy_SMCR register).


5. Configure TIMz to get the input trigger from TIMy (TS=00000 in the TIMz_SMCR
register).


6. Configure TIMz in trigger mode (SMS=110 in the TIMz_SMCR register).


When a rising edge occurs on TI1 (TIMy), both counters starts counting synchronously on
the internal clock and both TIF flags are set.


_Note:_ _In this example both timers are initialized before starting (by setting their respective UG_
_bits). Both counters starts from 0, but an offset can easily be inserted between them by_
_writing any of the counter registers (TIMx_CNT). One can see that the master/slave mode_
_insert a delay between CNT_EN and CK_PSC on TIM_ y _._


**Figure 166. Triggering TIM** y **and TIM** z **with TIM** y **TI1 input**


|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||||||
||01|02|03|04|05|06|07|08|09|
|||||||||||







_Note:_ _The clock of the slave peripherals (timer, ADC, ...) receiving the TRGO or the TRGO2_
_signals must be enabled prior to receive events from the master timer, and the clock_
_frequency (prescaler) must not be changed on-the-fly while triggers are received from the_
_master timer._


**18.3.20** **DMA burst mode**


The TIMx timers have the capability to generate multiple DMA requests upon a single event.
The main purpose is to be able to re-program part of the timer multiple times without
software overhead, but it can also be used to read several registers in a row, at regular
intervals.


The DMA controller destination is unique and must point to the virtual register TIMx_DMAR.
On a given timer event, the timer launches a sequence of DMA requests (burst). Each write
into the TIMx_DMAR register is actually redirected to one of the timer registers.


486/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


The DBL[4:0] bits in the TIMx_DCR register set the DMA burst length. The timer recognizes
a burst transfer when a read or a write access is done to the TIMx_DMAR address), i.e. the
number of transfers (either in half-words or in bytes).


The DBA[4:0] bits in the TIMx_DCR registers define the DMA base address for DMA
transfers (when read/write access are done through the TIMx_DMAR address). DBA is
defined as an offset starting from the address of the TIMx_CR1 register:


Example:


00000: TIMx_CR1


00001: TIMx_CR2


00010: TIMx_SMCR


As an example, the timer DMA burst feature is used to update the contents of the CCRx
registers (x = 2, 3, 4) upon an update event, with the DMA transferring half words into the
CCRx registers.


This is done in the following steps:


1. Configure the corresponding DMA channel as follows:


–
DMA channel peripheral address is the DMAR register address


–
DMA channel memory address is the address of the buffer in the RAM containing
the data to be transferred by DMA into CCRx registers.


–
Number of data to transfer = 3 (See note below).


– Circular mode disabled.


2. Configure the DCR register by configuring the DBA and DBL bit fields as follows:
DBL = 3 transfers, DBA = 0xE.


3. Enable the TIMx update DMA request (set the UDE bit in the DIER register).


4. Enable TIMx


5. Enable the DMA channel


This example is for the case where every CCRx register has to be updated once. If every
CCRx register is to be updated twice for example, the number of data to transfer should be
6. Let's take the example of a buffer in the RAM containing data1, data2, data3, data4, data5
and data6. The data is transferred to the CCRx registers as follows: on the first update DMA
request, data1 is transferred to CCR2, data2 is transferred to CCR3, data3 is transferred to
CCR4 and on the second update DMA request, data4 is transferred to CCR2, data5 is
transferred to CCR3 and data6 is transferred to CCR4.


_Note:_ _A null value can be written to the reserved registers._


**18.3.21** **Debug mode**


When the microcontroller enters debug mode (Cortex [®] -M0+ core - halted), the TIMx counter
either continues to work normally or stops, depending on DBG_TIMx_STOP configuration
bit in DBGMCU module. For more details, refer to _Section 30.9.2: Debug support for timers,_
_watchdog, and I2C_ .


RM0490 Rev 5 487/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**

## **18.4 TIM2/TIM3 registers**


For STM32C011xx and STM32C031xx, “TIMx” should be understood as “TIM3” since there
is only one instance of this type of timer for these products.


Refer to _Section 1.2_ for a list of abbreviations used in register descriptions.


The peripheral registers can be accessed by half-words (16-bit) or words (32-bit).


**18.4.1** **TIMx control register 1 (TIMx_CR1)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x00


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9 8|Col8|7|6 5|Col11|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|UIFRE<br>MAP|Res.|CKD[1:0]|CKD[1:0]|ARPE|CMS[1:0]|CMS[1:0]|DIR|OPM|URS|UDIS|CEN|
|||||rw||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:12 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 11 **UIFREMAP** : UIF status bit remapping

0: No remapping. UIF status bit is not copied to TIMx_CNT register bit 31.
1: Remapping enabled. UIF status bit is copied to TIMx_CNT register bit 31.


Bit 10 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 9:8 **CKD[1:0]** : Clock division

This bit-field indicates the division ratio between the timer clock (CK_INT) frequency and
sampling clock used by the digital filters (ETR, TIx),
00: t DTS = t CK_INT
01: t DTS = 2 × t CK_INT
10: t DTS = 4 × t CK_INT
11: Reserved


Bit 7 **ARPE** : Auto-reload preload enable

0: TIMx_ARR register is not buffered
1: TIMx_ARR register is buffered


Bits 6:5 **CMS[1:0]** : Center-aligned mode selection

00: Edge-aligned mode. The counter counts up or down depending on the direction bit
(DIR).
01: Center-aligned mode 1. The counter counts up and down alternatively. Output compare
interrupt flags of channels configured in output (CCxS=00 in TIMx_CCMRx register) are set
only when the counter is counting down.
10: Center-aligned mode 2. The counter counts up and down alternatively. Output compare
interrupt flags of channels configured in output (CCxS=00 in TIMx_CCMRx register) are set
only when the counter is counting up.
11: Center-aligned mode 3. The counter counts up and down alternatively. Output compare
interrupt flags of channels configured in output (CCxS=00 in TIMx_CCMRx register) are set
both when the counter is counting up or down.

_Note: It is not allowed to switch from edge-aligned mode to center-aligned mode as long as_
_the counter is enabled (CEN=1)_


488/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


Bit 4 **DIR** : Direction

0: Counter used as upcounter
1: Counter used as downcounter

_Note: This bit is read only when the timer is configured in Center-aligned mode or Encoder_
_mode._


Bit 3 **OPM** : One-pulse mode

0: Counter is not stopped at update event
1: Counter stops counting at the next update event (clearing the bit CEN)


Bit 2 **URS** : Update request source

This bit is set and cleared by software to select the UEV event sources.
0: Any of the following events generate an update interrupt or DMA request if enabled.
These events can be:

– Counter overflow/underflow

–
Setting the UG bit

–
Update generation through the slave mode controller
1: Only counter overflow/underflow generates an update interrupt or DMA request if
enabled.


Bit 1 **UDIS** : Update disable

This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable UEV event generation.
0: UEV enabled. The Update (UEV) event is generated by one of the following events:

– Counter overflow/underflow

–
Setting the UG bit

–
Update generation through the slave mode controller
Buffered registers are then loaded with their preload values.
1: UEV disabled. The Update event is not generated, shadow registers keep their value
(ARR, PSC, CCRx). However the counter and the prescaler are reinitialized if the UG bit is
set or if a hardware reset is received from the slave mode controller.


Bit 0 **CEN** : Counter enable

0: Counter disabled

1: Counter enabled

_Note: External clock, gated mode and encoder mode can work only if the CEN bit has been_
_previously set by software. However trigger mode can set the CEN bit automatically by_
_hardware._

CEN is cleared automatically in one-pulse mode, when an update event occurs.


**18.4.2** **TIMx control register 2 (TIMx_CR2)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x04


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6 5 4|Col11|Col12|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI1S|MMS[2:0]|MMS[2:0]|MMS[2:0]|CCDS|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|||||||||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw||||



RM0490 Rev 5 489/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


Bits 15:8 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 7 **TI1S** : TI1 selection

0: The TIMx_CH1 pin is connected to TI1 input
1: The TIMx_CH1, CH2 and CH3 pins are connected to the TI1 input (XOR combination)
See also _Section 17.3.25: Interfacing with Hall sensors on page 396_


Bits 6:4 **MMS[2:0]** : Master mode selection

These bits permit to select the information to be sent in master mode to slave timers for
synchronization (TRGO). The combination is as follows:
000: **Reset**             - the UG bit from the TIMx_EGR register is used as trigger output (TRGO). If the
reset is generated by the trigger input (slave mode controller configured in reset mode) then
the signal on TRGO is delayed compared to the actual reset.
001: **Enable**             - the Counter enable signal, CNT_EN, is used as trigger output (TRGO). It is
useful to start several timers at the same time or to control a window in which a slave timer is

enabled. The Counter Enable signal is generated by a logic AND between CEN control bit
and the trigger input when configured in gated mode.
When the Counter Enable signal is controlled by the trigger input, there is a delay on TRGO,
except if the master/slave mode is selected (see the MSM bit description in TIMx_SMCR
register).
010: **Update**             - The update event is selected as trigger output (TRGO). For instance a master
timer can then be used as a prescaler for a slave timer.
011: **Compare Pulse**             - The trigger output send a positive pulse when the CC1IF flag is to be
set (even if it was already high), as soon as a capture or a compare match occurred.
(TRGO)
100: **Compare**             - OC1REFC signal is used as trigger output (TRGO)
101: **Compare**             - OC2REFC signal is used as trigger output (TRGO)
110: **Compare**             - OC3REFC signal is used as trigger output (TRGO)
111: **Compare**             - OC4REFC signal is used as trigger output (TRGO)

_Note: The clock of the slave timer or ADC must be enabled prior to receive events from the_
_master timer, and must not be changed on-the-fly while triggers are received from the_
_master timer._


Bit 3 **CCDS** : Capture/compare DMA selection

0: CCx DMA request sent when CCx event occurs
1: CCx DMA requests sent when update event occurs


Bits 2:0 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


490/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**18.4.3** **TIMx slave mode control register (TIMx_SMCR)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x08


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21 20|Col12|19|18|17|16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TS[4:3]|TS[4:3]|Res.|Res.|Res.|SMS[3]|
|||||||||||rw|rw||||rw|


|15|14|13 12|Col4|11 10 9 8|Col6|Col7|Col8|7|6 5 4|Col11|Col12|3|2 1 0|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|ETP|ECE|ETPS[1:0]|ETPS[1:0]|ETF[3:0]|ETF[3:0]|ETF[3:0]|ETF[3:0]|MSM|TS[2:0]|TS[2:0]|TS[2:0]|OCCS|SMS[2:0]|SMS[2:0]|SMS[2:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:22 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 19:17 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 15 **ETP** : External trigger polarity

This bit selects whether ETR or ETR is used for trigger operations
0: ETR is non-inverted, active at high level or rising edge
1: ETR is inverted, active at low level or falling edge


Bit 14 **ECE** : External clock enable

This bit enables External clock mode 2.

0: External clock mode 2 disabled

1: External clock mode 2 enabled. The counter is clocked by any active edge on the ETRF
signal.

_Note: Setting the ECE bit has the same effect as selecting external clock mode 1 with TRGI_
_connected to ETRF (SMS=111 and TS=00111)._

_It is possible to simultaneously use external clock mode 2 with the following slave_
_modes: reset mode, gated mode and trigger mode. Nevertheless, TRGI must not be_
_connected to ETRF in this case (TS bits must not be 00111)._

_If external clock mode 1 and external clock mode 2 are enabled at the same time, the_
_external clock input is ETRF._


Bits 13:12 **ETPS[1:0]** : External trigger prescaler

External trigger signal ETRP frequency must be at most 1/4 of CK_INT frequency. A
prescaler can be enabled to reduce ETRP frequency. It is useful when inputting fast external
clocks.

00: Prescaler OFF

01: ETRP frequency divided by 2
10: ETRP frequency divided by 4
11: ETRP frequency divided by 8


RM0490 Rev 5 491/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


Bits 11:8 **ETF[3:0]** : External trigger filter

This bit-field then defines the frequency used to sample ETRP signal and the length of the
digital filter applied to ETRP. The digital filter is made of an event counter in which N
consecutive events are needed to validate a transition on the output:
0000: No filter, sampling is done at f DTS
0001:  f SAMPLING =f CK_INT, N=2
0010:  f SAMPLING =f CK_INT, N=4
0011:  f SAMPLING =f CK_INT, N=8
0100:  f SAMPLING =f DTS /2, N=6
0101:  f SAMPLING =f DTS /2, N=8
0110:  f SAMPLING =f DTS /4, N=6
0111:  f SAMPLING =f DTS /4, N=8
1000:  f SAMPLING =f DTS /8, N=6
1001:  f SAMPLING =f DTS /8, N=8
1010:  f SAMPLING =f DTS /16, N=5
1011:  f SAMPLING =f DTS /16, N=6
1100:  f SAMPLING =f DTS /16, N=8
1101:  f SAMPLING =f DTS /32, N=5
1110:  f SAMPLING =f DTS /32, N=6
1111:  f SAMPLING =f DTS /32, N=8


Bit 7 **MSM** : Master/Slave mode

0: No action

1: The effect of an event on the trigger input (TRGI) is delayed to allow a perfect
synchronization between the current timer and its slaves (through TRGO). It is useful if we
want to synchronize several timers on a single external event.


492/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


Bits 21, 20, 6, 5, 4 **TS[4:0]** : Trigger selection

This bit-field selects the trigger input to be used to synchronize the counter.
00000: Internal Trigger 0 (ITR0)
00001: Internal Trigger 1 (ITR1)
00010: Internal Trigger 2 (ITR2)
00011: Internal Trigger 3 (ITR3)
00100: TI1 Edge Detector (TI1F_ED)
00101: Filtered Timer Input 1 (TI1FP1)
00110: Filtered Timer Input 2 (TI2FP2)
00111: External Trigger input (ETRF)
01000: Internal Trigger 4 (ITR4)
01001: Internal Trigger 5 (ITR5)
01010: Internal Trigger 6 (ITR6)
01011: Internal Trigger 7 (ITR7)
01100: Internal Trigger 8 (ITR8)

Others: Reserved

See _Table 84: TIM2/TIM3 internal trigger connection on page 494_ for more details on ITRx
meaning for each Timer.

_Note: These bits must be changed only when they are not used (e.g. when SMS=000) to_
_avoid wrong edge detections at the transition._


Bit 3 **OCCS** : OCREF clear selection

This bit is used to select the OCREF clear source

0: OCREF_CLR_INT is unconnected.
1: OCREF_CLR_INT is connected to ETRF


RM0490 Rev 5 493/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


Bits 16, 2, 1, 0 **SMS[3:0]** : Slave mode selection

When external signals are selected the active edge of the trigger signal (TRGI) is linked to
the polarity selected on the external input (see Input Control register and Control Register
description.
0000: Slave mode disabled - if CEN = ‘1 then the prescaler is clocked directly by the internal
clock.

0001: Encoder mode 1 - Counter counts up/down on TI1FP1 edge depending on TI2FP2
level.

0010: Encoder mode 2 - Counter counts up/down on TI2FP2 edge depending on TI1FP1
level.

0011: Encoder mode 3 - Counter counts up/down on both TI1FP1 and TI2FP2 edges
depending on the level of the other input.
0100: Reset Mode - Rising edge of the selected trigger input (TRGI) reinitializes the counter
and generates an update of the registers.
0101: Gated Mode - The counter clock is enabled when the trigger input (TRGI) is high. The
counter stops (but is not reset) as soon as the trigger becomes low. Both start and stop of
the counter are controlled.

0110: Trigger Mode - The counter starts at a rising edge of the trigger TRGI (but it is not
reset). Only the start of the counter is controlled.
0111: External Clock Mode 1 - Rising edges of the selected trigger (TRGI) clock the counter.
1000: Combined reset + trigger mode - Rising edge of the selected trigger input (TRGI)
reinitializes the counter, generates an update of the registers and starts the counter.

_Note: The gated mode must not be used if TI1F_ED is selected as the trigger input_
_(TS=00100). Indeed, TI1F_ED outputs 1 pulse for each transition on TI1F, whereas the_
_gated mode checks the level of the trigger signal._

_Note: The clock of the slave peripherals (timer, ADC, ...) receiving the TRGO or the TRGO2_
_signals must be enabled prior to receive events from the master timer, and the clock_
_frequency (prescaler) must not be changed on-the-fly while triggers are received from_
_the master timer._


**Table 84. TIM2/TIM3 internal trigger connection**









|Slave TIM|ITR0|ITR1|ITR2|ITR3|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|TIM2(1)|TIM1|TIM15(2)|TIM3|TIM14_OC1|
|TIM3|TIM1|TIM2(1)|TIM15(2)|TIM14_OC1|


1. TIM2 is available on the STM32C051xx/71xx/91xx/92xx devices only.


2. Applies to STM32C091xx/92xx devices only.


**18.4.4** **TIMx DMA/Interrupt enable register (TIMx_DIER)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x0C


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|TDE|Res.|CC4DE|CC3DE|CC2DE|CC1DE|UDE|Res.|TIE|Res.|CC4IE|CC3IE|CC2IE|CC1IE|UIE|
||rw||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw||rw||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



494/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


Bit 15 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 14 **TDE** : Trigger DMA request enable

0: Trigger DMA request disabled.
1: Trigger DMA request enabled.


Bit 13 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 12 **CC4DE** : Capture/Compare 4 DMA request enable

0: CC4 DMA request disabled.
1: CC4 DMA request enabled.


Bit 11 **CC3DE** : Capture/Compare 3 DMA request enable

0: CC3 DMA request disabled.
1: CC3 DMA request enabled.


Bit 10 **CC2DE** : Capture/Compare 2 DMA request enable

0: CC2 DMA request disabled.
1: CC2 DMA request enabled.


Bit 9 **CC1DE** : Capture/Compare 1 DMA request enable

0: CC1 DMA request disabled.
1: CC1 DMA request enabled.


Bit 8 **UDE** : Update DMA request enable

0: Update DMA request disabled.
1: Update DMA request enabled.


Bit 7 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 6 **TIE** : Trigger interrupt enable

0: Trigger interrupt disabled.
1: Trigger interrupt enabled.


Bit 5 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 4 **CC4IE** : Capture/Compare 4 interrupt enable

0: CC4 interrupt disabled.
1: CC4 interrupt enabled.


Bit 3 **CC3IE** : Capture/Compare 3 interrupt enable

0: CC3 interrupt disabled.
1: CC3 interrupt enabled.


Bit 2 **CC2IE** : Capture/Compare 2 interrupt enable

0: CC2 interrupt disabled.
1: CC2 interrupt enabled.


Bit 1 **CC1IE** : Capture/Compare 1 interrupt enable

0: CC1 interrupt disabled.
1: CC1 interrupt enabled.


Bit 0 **UIE** : Update interrupt enable

0: Update interrupt disabled.
1: Update interrupt enabled.


RM0490 Rev 5 495/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**18.4.5** **TIMx status register (TIMx_SR)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x10


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|CC4OF|CC3OF|CC2OF|CC1OF|Res.|Res.|TIF|Res.|CC4IF|CC3IF|CC2IF|CC1IF|UIF|
||||rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0|||rc_w0||rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0|rc_w0|



Bits 15:13 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 12 **CC4OF** : Capture/Compare 4 overcapture flag

refer to CC1OF description


Bit 11 **CC3OF** : Capture/Compare 3 overcapture flag

refer to CC1OF description


Bit 10 **CC2OF** : Capture/compare 2 overcapture flag

refer to CC1OF description


Bit 9 **CC1OF** : Capture/Compare 1 overcapture flag

This flag is set by hardware only when the corresponding channel is configured in input
capture mode. It is cleared by software by writing it to ‘0’.
0: No overcapture has been detected.
1: The counter value has been captured in TIMx_CCR1 register while CC1IF flag was
already set


Bits 8:7 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 6 **TIF** : Trigger interrupt flag

This flag is set by hardware on the TRG trigger event (active edge detected on TRGI input
when the slave mode controller is enabled in all modes but gated mode. It is set when the
counter starts or stops when gated mode is selected. It is cleared by software.
0: No trigger event occurred.
1: Trigger interrupt pending.


Bit 5 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 4 **CC4IF** : Capture/Compare 4 interrupt flag

Refer to CC1IF description


Bit 3 **CC3IF** : Capture/Compare 3 interrupt flag

Refer to CC1IF description


496/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


Bit 2 **CC2IF** : Capture/Compare 2 interrupt flag

Refer to CC1IF description


Bit 1 **CC1IF** : Capture/compare 1 interrupt flag

This flag is set by hardware. It is cleared by software (input capture or output compare mode)
or by reading the TIMx_CCR1 register (input capture mode only).
0: No compare match / No input capture occurred
1: A compare match or an input capture occurred
**If channel CC1 is configured as output** : this flag is set when the content of the counter
TIMx_CNT matches the content of the TIMx_CCR1 register. When the content of
TIMx_CCR1 is greater than the content of TIMx_ARR, the CC1IF bit goes high on the
counter overflow (in up-counting and up/down-counting modes) or underflow (in downcounting mode). There are 3 possible options for flag setting in center-aligned mode, refer to
the CMS bits in the TIMx_CR1 register for the full description.
**If channel CC1 is configured as input** : this bit is set when counter value has been captured
in TIMx_CCR1 register (an edge has been detected on IC1, as per the edge sensitivity
defined with the CC1P and CC1NP bits setting, in TIMx_CCER).


Bit 0 **UIF** : Update interrupt flag

This bit is set by hardware on an update event. It is cleared by software.
0: No update occurred
1: Update interrupt pending. This bit is set by hardware when the registers are updated:
At overflow or underflow and if UDIS=0 in the TIMx_CR1 register.
When CNT is reinitialized by software using the UG bit in TIMx_EGR register, if URS=0 and
UDIS=0 in the TIMx_CR1 register.
When CNT is reinitialized by a trigger event (refer to the synchro control register description),
if URS=0 and UDIS=0 in the TIMx_CR1 register.


**18.4.6** **TIMx event generation register (TIMx_EGR)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x14


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TG|Res.|CC4G|CC3G|CC2G|CC1G|UG|
||||||||||w||w|w|w|w|w|



Bits 15:7 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 6 **TG** : Trigger generation

This bit is set by software in order to generate an event, it is automatically cleared by
hardware.

0: No action

1: The TIF flag is set in TIMx_SR register. Related interrupt or DMA transfer can occur if
enabled.


Bit 5 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 4 **CC4G** : Capture/compare 4 generation

Refer to CC1G description


Bit 3 **CC3G** : Capture/compare 3 generation

Refer to CC1G description


RM0490 Rev 5 497/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


Bit 2 **CC2G** : Capture/compare 2 generation

Refer to CC1G description


Bit 1 **CC1G** : Capture/compare 1 generation

This bit is set by software in order to generate an event, it is automatically cleared by
hardware.

0: No action

1: A capture/compare event is generated on channel 1:
**If channel CC1 is configured as output** :
CC1IF flag is set, Corresponding interrupt or DMA request is sent if enabled.
**If channel CC1 is configured as input** :
The current value of the counter is captured in TIMx_CCR1 register. The CC1IF flag is set,
the corresponding interrupt or DMA request is sent if enabled. The CC1OF flag is set if the
CC1IF flag was already high.


Bit 0 **UG** : Update generation

This bit can be set by software, it is automatically cleared by hardware.

0: No action

1: Re-initialize the counter and generates an update of the registers. Note that the prescaler
counter is cleared too (anyway the prescaler ratio is not affected). The counter is cleared if
the center-aligned mode is selected or if DIR=0 (upcounting), else it takes the auto-reload
value (TIMx_ARR) if DIR=1 (downcounting).


**18.4.7** **TIMx capture/compare mode register 1 (TIMx_CCMR1)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x18


Reset value: 0x0000 0000


The same register can be used for input capture mode (this section) or for output compare
mode (next section). The direction of a channel is defined by configuring the corresponding
CCxS bits. All the other bits of this register have a different function in input and in output
mode.


**Input capture mode:**

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|||||||||||||||||


|15 14 13 12|Col2|Col3|Col4|11 10|Col6|9 8|Col8|7 6 5 4|Col10|Col11|Col12|3 2|Col14|1 0|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|IC2F[3:0]|IC2F[3:0]|IC2F[3:0]|IC2F[3:0]|IC2PSC[1:0]|IC2PSC[1:0]|CC2S[1:0]|CC2S[1:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1PSC[1:0]|IC1PSC[1:0]|CC1S[1:0]|CC1S[1:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:16 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 15:12 **IC2F[3:0]** : Input capture 2 filter


Bits 11:10 **IC2PSC[1:0]** : Input capture 2 prescaler


498/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


Bits 9:8 **CC2S[1:0]** : Capture/compare 2 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.
00: CC2 channel is configured as output.
01: CC2 channel is configured as input, IC2 is mapped on TI2.
10: CC2 channel is configured as input, IC2 is mapped on TI1.
11: CC2 channel is configured as input, IC2 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC2S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC2E = 0 in TIMx_CCER)._


Bits 7:4 **IC1F[3:0]** : Input capture 1 filter

This bit-field defines the frequency used to sample TI1 input and the length of the digital filter
applied to TI1. The digital filter is made of an event counter in which N consecutive events
are needed to validate a transition on the output:
0000: No filter, sampling is done at f DTS
0001: f SAMPLING =f CK_INT, N=2
0010: f SAMPLING =f CK_INT, N=4
0011: f SAMPLING =f CK_INT, N=8
0100: f SAMPLING =f DTS /2, N=6
0101: f SAMPLING =f DTS /2, N=8
0110: f SAMPLING =f DTS /4, N=6
0111: f SAMPLING =f DTS /4, N=8
1000: f SAMPLING =f DTS /8, N=6
1001: f SAMPLING =f DTS /8, N=8
1010: f SAMPLING =f DTS /16, N=5
1011: f SAMPLING =f DTS /16, N=6
1100: f SAMPLING =f DTS /16, N=8
1101: f SAMPLING =f DTS /32, N=5
1110: f SAMPLING =f DTS /32, N=6
1111: f SAMPLING =f DTS /32, N=8


Bits 3:2 **IC1PSC[1:0]** : Input capture 1 prescaler

This bit-field defines the ratio of the prescaler acting on CC1 input (IC1). The prescaler is
reset as soon as CC1E=0 (TIMx_CCER register).
00: no prescaler, capture is done each time an edge is detected on the capture input
01: capture is done once every 2 events
10: capture is done once every 4 events
11: capture is done once every 8 events


Bits 1:0 **CC1S[1:0]** : Capture/Compare 1 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.
00: CC1 channel is configured as output
01: CC1 channel is configured as input, IC1 is mapped on TI1
10: CC1 channel is configured as input, IC1 is mapped on TI2
11: CC1 channel is configured as input, IC1 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC1S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC1E = 0 in TIMx_CCER)._


RM0490 Rev 5 499/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**18.4.8** **TIMx capture/compare mode register 1 [alternate] (TIMx_CCMR1)**
**(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x18


Reset value: 0x0000 0000


The same register can be used for output compare mode (this section) or for input capture
mode (previous section). The direction of a channel is defined by configuring the
corresponding CCxS bits. All the other bits of this register have a different function in input
and in output mode.


**Output compare mode:**

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|OC2M<br>[3]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|OC1M<br>[3]|
||||||||rw||||||||rw|


|15|14 13 12|Col3|Col4|11|10|9 8|Col8|7|6 5 4|Col11|Col12|3|2|1 0|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|OC2CE|OC2M[2:0]|OC2M[2:0]|OC2M[2:0]|OC2PE|OC2FE|CC2S[1:0]|CC2S[1:0]|OC1CE|OC1M[2:0]|OC1M[2:0]|OC1M[2:0]|OC1PE|OC1FE|CC1S[1:0]|CC1S[1:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:25 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 23:17 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 15 **OC2CE** : Output compare 2 clear enable


Bits 24, 14:12 **OC2M[3:0]** : Output compare 2 mode

refer to OC1M description on bits 6:4


Bit 11 **OC2PE** : Output compare 2 preload enable


Bit 10 **OC2FE** : Output compare 2 fast enable


Bits 9:8 **CC2S[1:0]** : Capture/Compare 2 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.
00: CC2 channel is configured as output
01: CC2 channel is configured as input, IC2 is mapped on TI2
10: CC2 channel is configured as input, IC2 is mapped on TI1
11: CC2 channel is configured as input, IC2 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through the TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC2S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC2E = 0 in TIMx_CCER)._


Bit 7 **OC1CE** : Output compare 1 clear enable

0: OC1Ref is not affected by the ETRF input
1: OC1Ref is cleared as soon as a High level is detected on ETRF input


500/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


Bits 16, 6:4 **OC1M[3:0]** : Output compare 1 mode

These bits define the behavior of the output reference signal OC1REF from which OC1 and
OC1N are derived. OC1REF is active high whereas OC1 and OC1N active level depends
on CC1P and CC1NP bits.

0000: Frozen - The comparison between the output compare register TIMx_CCR1 and the
counter TIMx_CNT has no effect on the outputs. This mode can be used when the timer
serves as a software timebase. When the frozen mode is enabled during timer operation,
the output keeps the state (active or inactive) it had before entering the frozen state.
0001: Set channel 1 to active level on match. OC1REF signal is forced high when the
counter TIMx_CNT matches the capture/compare register 1 (TIMx_CCR1).
0010: Set channel 1 to inactive level on match. OC1REF signal is forced low when the
counter TIMx_CNT matches the capture/compare register 1 (TIMx_CCR1).
0011: Toggle - OC1REF toggles when TIMx_CNT=TIMx_CCR1.
0100: Force inactive level - OC1REF is forced low.

0101: Force active level - OC1REF is forced high.
0110: PWM mode 1 - In upcounting, channel 1 is active as long as TIMx_CNT<TIMx_CCR1
else inactive. In downcounting, channel 1 is inactive (OC1REF=‘0) as long as
TIMx_CNT>TIMx_CCR1 else active (OC1REF=1).
0111: PWM mode 2 - In upcounting, channel 1 is inactive as long as
TIMx_CNT<TIMx_CCR1 else active. In downcounting, channel 1 is active as long as
TIMx_CNT>TIMx_CCR1 else inactive.
1000: Retriggerable OPM mode 1 - In up-counting mode, the channel is active until a trigger
event is detected (on TRGI signal). Then, a comparison is performed as in PWM mode 1
and the channels becomes inactive again at the next update. In down-counting mode, the
channel is inactive until a trigger event is detected (on TRGI signal). Then, a comparison is
performed as in PWM mode 1 and the channels becomes inactive again at the next update.
1001: Retriggerable OPM mode 2 - In up-counting mode, the channel is inactive until a
trigger event is detected (on TRGI signal). Then, a comparison is performed as in PWM
mode 2 and the channels becomes inactive again at the next update. In down-counting
mode, the channel is active until a trigger event is detected (on TRGI signal). Then, a
comparison is performed as in PWM mode 1 and the channels becomes active again at the
next update.
1010: Reserved,

1011: Reserved,

1100: Combined PWM mode 1 - OC1REF has the same behavior as in PWM mode 1.

OC1REFC is the logical OR between OC1REF and OC2REF.

1101: Combined PWM mode 2 - OC1REF has the same behavior as in PWM mode 2.

OC1REFC is the logical AND between OC1REF and OC2REF.
1110: Asymmetric PWM mode 1 - OC1REF has the same behavior as in PWM mode 1.
OC1REFC outputs OC1REF when the counter is counting up, OC2REF when it is counting
down.

1111: Asymmetric PWM mode 2 - OC1REF has the same behavior as in PWM mode 2.
OC1REFC outputs OC1REF when the counter is counting up, OC2REF when it is counting
down.

_Note: In PWM mode, the OCREF level changes only when the result of the comparison_
_changes or when the output compare mode switches from “frozen” mode to “PWM”_
_mode._

_Note: The OC1M[3] bit is not contiguous, located in bit 16._


RM0490 Rev 5 501/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


Bit 3 **OC1PE** : Output compare 1 preload enable

0: Preload register on TIMx_CCR1 disabled. TIMx_CCR1 can be written at anytime, the
new value is taken in account immediately.
1: Preload register on TIMx_CCR1 enabled. Read/Write operations access the preload
register. TIMx_CCR1 preload value is loaded in the active register at each update event.


Bit 2 **OC1FE** : Output compare 1 fast enable

This bit decreases the latency between a trigger event and a transition on the timer output.
It must be used in one-pulse mode (OPM bit set in TIMx_CR1 register), to have the output
pulse starting as soon as possible after the starting trigger.
0: CC1 behaves normally depending on counter and CCR1 values even when the trigger is
ON. The minimum delay to activate CC1 output when an edge occurs on the trigger input is
5 clock cycles.
1: An active edge on the trigger input acts like a compare match on CC1 output. Then, OC
is set to the compare level independently from the result of the comparison. Delay to sample
the trigger input and to activate CC1 output is reduced to 3 clock cycles. OCFE acts only if
the channel is configured in PWM1 or PWM2 mode.


Bits 1:0 **CC1S[1:0]** : Capture/Compare 1 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.
00: CC1 channel is configured as output.
01: CC1 channel is configured as input, IC1 is mapped on TI1.
10: CC1 channel is configured as input, IC1 is mapped on TI2.
11: CC1 channel is configured as input, IC1 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC1S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC1E = 0 in TIMx_CCER)._


**18.4.9** **TIMx capture/compare mode register 2 (TIMx_CCMR2)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x1C


Reset value: 0x0000 0000


The same register can be used for input capture mode (this section) or for output compare
mode (next section). The direction of a channel is defined by configuring the corresponding
CCxS bits. All the other bits of this register have a different function in input and in output
mode.


**Input capture mode:**

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|||||||||||||||||


|15 14 13 12|Col2|Col3|Col4|11 10|Col6|9 8|Col8|7 6 5 4|Col10|Col11|Col12|3 2|Col14|1 0|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|IC4F[3:0]|IC4F[3:0]|IC4F[3:0]|IC4F[3:0]|IC4PSC[1:0]|IC4PSC[1:0]|CC4S[1:0]|CC4S[1:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3PSC[1:0]|IC3PSC[1:0]|CC3S[1:0]|CC3S[1:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:16 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 15:12 **IC4F[3:0]** : Input capture 4 filter


Bits 11:10 **IC4PSC[1:0]** : Input capture 4 prescaler


502/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


Bits 9:8 **CC4S[1:0]** : Capture/Compare 4 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.
00: CC4 channel is configured as output
01: CC4 channel is configured as input, IC4 is mapped on TI4
10: CC4 channel is configured as input, IC4 is mapped on TI3
11: CC4 channel is configured as input, IC4 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC4S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC4E = 0 in TIMx_CCER)._


Bits 7:4 **IC3F[3:0]** : Input capture 3 filter


Bits 3:2 **IC3PSC[1:0]** : Input capture 3 prescaler


Bits 1:0 **CC3S[1:0]** : Capture/Compare 3 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.
00: CC3 channel is configured as output
01: CC3 channel is configured as input, IC3 is mapped on TI3
10: CC3 channel is configured as input, IC3 is mapped on TI4
11: CC3 channel is configured as input, IC3 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC3S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC3E = 0 in TIMx_CCER)._


**18.4.10** **TIMx capture/compare mode register 2 [alternate] (TIMx_CCMR2)**
**(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x1C


Reset value: 0x0000 0000


The same register can be used for output compare mode (this section) or for input capture
mode (previous section). The direction of a channel is defined by configuring the
corresponding CCxS bits. All the other bits of this register have a different function in input
and in output mode.


**Output compare mode:**

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|OC4M<br>[3]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|OC3M<br>[3]|
||||||||rw||||||||rw|


|15|14 13 12|Col3|Col4|11|10|9 8|Col8|7|6 5 4|Col11|Col12|3|2|1 0|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|OC4CE|OC4M[2:0]|OC4M[2:0]|OC4M[2:0]|OC4PE|OC4FE|CC4S[1:0]|CC4S[1:0]|OC3CE|OC3M[2:0]|OC3M[2:0]|OC3M[2:0]|OC3PE|OC3FE|CC3S[1:0]|CC3S[1:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:25 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 23:17 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 15 **OC4CE** : Output compare 4 clear enable


Bits 24, 14:12 **OC4M[3:0]** : Output compare 4 mode

Refer to OC1M description (bits 6:4 in TIMx_CCMR1 register)


Bit 11 **OC4PE** : Output compare 4 preload enable


Bit 10 **OC4FE** : Output compare 4 fast enable


RM0490 Rev 5 503/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


Bits 9:8 **CC4S[1:0]** : Capture/Compare 4 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.
00: CC4 channel is configured as output
01: CC4 channel is configured as input, IC4 is mapped on TI4
10: CC4 channel is configured as input, IC4 is mapped on TI3
11: CC4 channel is configured as input, IC4 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC4S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC4E = 0 in TIMx_CCER)._


Bit 7 **OC3CE** : Output compare 3 clear enable


Bits 16, 6:4 **OC3M[3:0]** : Output compare 3 mode

Refer to OC1M description (bits 6:4 in TIMx_CCMR1 register)


Bit 3 **OC3PE** : Output compare 3 preload enable


Bit 2 **OC3FE** : Output compare 3 fast enable


Bits 1:0 **CC3S[1:0]** : Capture/Compare 3 selection

This bit-field defines the direction of the channel (input/output) as well as the used input.
00: CC3 channel is configured as output
01: CC3 channel is configured as input, IC3 is mapped on TI3
10: CC3 channel is configured as input, IC3 is mapped on TI4
11: CC3 channel is configured as input, IC3 is mapped on TRC. This mode is working only if
an internal trigger input is selected through TS bit (TIMx_SMCR register)

_Note: CC3S bits are writable only when the channel is OFF (CC3E = 0 in TIMx_CCER)._


**18.4.11** **TIMx capture/compare enable register**
**(TIMx_CCER)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x20


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CC4NP|Res.|CC4P|CC4E|CC3NP|Res.|CC3P|CC3E|CC2NP|Res.|CC2P|CC2E|CC1NP|Res.|CC1P|CC1E|
|rw||rw|rw|rw||rw|rw|rw||rw|rw|rw||rw|rw|



Bit 15 **CC4NP** : _Capture/Compare 4 output Polarity._

Refer to CC1NP description


Bit 14 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 13 **CC4P** : _Capture/Compare 4 output Polarity._

Refer to CC1P description


Bit 12 **CC4E** : _Capture/Compare 4 output enable._

refer to CC1E description


Bit 11 **CC3NP** : _Capture/Compare 3 output Polarity._

Refer to CC1NP description


Bit 10 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 9 **CC3P** : _Capture/Compare 3 output Polarity._

Refer to CC1P description


Bit 8 **CC3E** : _Capture/Compare 3 output enable._

Refer to CC1E description


504/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


Bit 7 **CC2NP** : _Capture/Compare 2 output Polarity._

Refer to CC1NP description


Bit 6 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 5 **CC2P** : _Capture/Compare 2 output Polarity._

refer to CC1P description


Bit 4 **CC2E** : _Capture/Compare 2 output enable._

Refer to CC1E description


Bit 3 **CC1NP** : _Capture/Compare 1 output Polarity._

**CC1 channel configured as output** : CC1NP must be kept cleared in this case.
**CC1 channel configured as input** : This bit is used in conjunction with CC1P to define
TI1FP1/TI2FP1 polarity. refer to CC1P description.


Bit 2 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 1 **CC1P** : _Capture/Compare 1 output Polarity._

0: OC1 active high (output mode) / Edge sensitivity selection (input mode, see below)
1: OC1 active low (output mode) / Edge sensitivity selection (input mode, see below)
**When CC1 channel is configured as input**, both CC1NP/CC1P bits select the active
polarity of TI1FP1 and TI2FP1 for trigger or capture operations.
CC1NP=0, CC1P=0: non-inverted/rising edge. The circuit is sensitive to TIxFP1 rising edge
(capture or trigger operations in reset, external clock or trigger mode),
TIxFP1 is not inverted (trigger operation in gated mode or encoder
mode).
CC1NP=0, CC1P=1: inverted/falling edge. The circuit is sensitive to TIxFP1 falling edge
(capture or trigger operations in reset, external clock or trigger mode),
TIxFP1 is inverted (trigger operation in gated mode or encoder mode).
CC1NP=1, CC1P=1: non-inverted/both edges. The circuit is sensitive to both TIxFP1 rising
and falling edges (capture or trigger operations in reset, external clock
or trigger mode), TIxFP1is not inverted (trigger operation in gated
mode). This configuration must not be used in encoder mode.
CC1NP=1, CC1P=0: This configuration is reserved, it must not be used.


Bit 0 **CC1E** : _Capture/Compare 1 output enable._

0: Capture mode disabled / OC1 is not active
1: Capture mode enabled / OC1 signal is output on the corresponding output pin


**Table 85. Output control bit for standard OCx channels**

|CCxE bit|OCx output state|
|---|---|
|0|Output disabled (not driven by the timer: Hi-Z)|
|1|Output enabled (tim_ocx = tim_ocxref + Polarity)|



_Note:_ _The state of the external IO pins connected to the standard OCx channels depends on the_
_OCx channel state and the GPIO control and alternate function registers._


**18.4.12** **TIMx counter (TIMx_CNT)(x = 2 to 3)**


Bit 31 of this register has two possible definitions depending on the value of UIFREMAP in
TIMx_CR1 register:


      - This section is for UIFREMAP = 0


      - Next section is for UIFREMAP = 1


RM0490 Rev 5 505/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


Address offset: 0x24


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|CNT[31:16]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|


|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:16 **CNT[31:16]** : Most significant part counter value


Bits 15:0 **CNT[15:0]** : Least significant part of counter value


**18.4.13** **TIMx counter [alternate] (TIMx_CNT)(x = 2 to 3)**


Bit 31 of this register has two possible definitions depending on the value of UIFREMAP in
TIMx_CR1 register:


      - Previous section is for UIFREMAP = 0


      - This section is for UIFREMAP = 1


Address offset: 0x24


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31|30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|UIFCPY|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|CNT[30:16]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|


|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bit 31 **UIFCPY** : UIF Copy

This bit is a read-only copy of the UIF bit of the TIMx_ISR register


Bits 30:16 **CNT[30:16]** : Most significant part counter value


Bits 15:0 **CNT[15:0]** : Least significant part of counter value


**18.4.14** **TIMx prescaler (TIMx_PSC)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x28


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



506/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


Bits 15:0 **PSC[15:0]** : Prescaler value
The counter clock frequency CK_CNT is equal to f CK_PSC / (PSC[15:0] + 1).
PSC contains the value to be loaded in the active prescaler register at each update event
(including when the counter is cleared through UG bit of TIMx_EGR register or through
trigger controller when configured in “reset mode”).


**18.4.15** **TIMx auto-reload register (TIMx_ARR)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x2C


Reset value: 0xFFFF FFFF

|31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|ARR[31:16]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|


|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:16 **ARR[31:16]** : High auto-reload value


Bits 15:0 **ARR[15:0]** : Low Auto-reload value

ARR is the value to be loaded in the actual auto-reload register.
Refer to the _Section 18.3.1: Time-base unit on page 445_ for more details about ARR update
and behavior.

The counter is blocked while the auto-reload value is null.


**18.4.16** **TIMx capture/compare register 1 (TIMx_CCR1)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x34


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|CCR1[31:16]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|


|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



RM0490 Rev 5 507/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


Bits 31:16 **CCR1[31:16]** : High Capture/Compare 1 value


Bits 15:0 **CCR1[15:0]** : Low Capture/Compare 1 value

**If channel CC1 is configured as output** :
CCR1 is the value to be loaded in the actual capture/compare 1 register (preload value).
It is loaded permanently if the preload feature is not selected in the TIMx_CCMR1 register
(bit OC1PE). Else the preload value is copied in the active capture/compare 1 register when
an update event occurs.
The active capture/compare register contains the value to be compared to the counter
TIMx_CNT and signaled on OC1 output.


**If channel CC1is configured as input** :
CCR1 is the counter value transferred by the last input capture 1 event (IC1). The
TIMx_CCR1 register is read-only and cannot be programmed.


**18.4.17** **TIMx capture/compare register 2 (TIMx_CCR2)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x38


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|CCR2[31:16]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|


|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:16 **CCR2[31:16]** : High Capture/Compare 2 value


Bits 15:0 **CCR2[15:0]** : Low Capture/Compare 2 value

**If channel CC2 is configured as output** :
CCR2 is the value to be loaded in the actual capture/compare 2 register (preload value).
It is loaded permanently if the preload feature is not selected in the TIMx_CCMR1 register
(bit OC2PE). Else the preload value is copied in the active capture/compare 2 register when
an update event occurs.
The active capture/compare register contains the value to be compared to the counter
TIMx_CNT and signalled on OC2 output.
**If channel CC2 is configured as input** :
CCR2 is the counter value transferred by the last input capture 2 event (IC2). The
TIMx_CCR2 register is read-only and cannot be programmed.


**18.4.18** **TIMx capture/compare register 3 (TIMx_CCR3)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x3C


Reset value: 0x0000 0000


508/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**

|31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|CCR3[31:16]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|


|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:16 **CCR3[31:16]** : High Capture/Compare 3 value


Bits 15:0 **CCR3[15:0]** : Low Capture/Compare value

**If channel CC3 is configured as output** :
CCR3 is the value to be loaded in the actual capture/compare 3 register (preload value).
It is loaded permanently if the preload feature is not selected in the TIMx_CCMR2 register
(bit OC3PE). Else the preload value is copied in the active capture/compare 3 register when
an update event occurs.
The active capture/compare register contains the value to be compared to the counter
TIMx_CNT and signalled on OC3 output.
**If channel CC3is configured as input** :
CCR3 is the counter value transferred by the last input capture 3 event (IC3). The
TIMx_CCR3 register is read-only and cannot be programmed.


**18.4.19** **TIMx capture/compare register 4 (TIMx_CCR4)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x40


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|CCR4[31:16]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|


|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:16 **CCR4[31:16]** : High Capture/Compare 4 value


Bits 15:0 **CCR4[15:0]** : Low Capture/Compare value

1. if CC4 channel is configured as output (CC4S bits):
CCR4 is the value to be loaded in the actual capture/compare 4 register (preload value).
It is loaded permanently if the preload feature is not selected in the TIMx_CCMR2
register (bit OC4PE). Else the preload value is copied in the active capture/compare 4
register when an update event occurs.
The active capture/compare register contains the value to be compared to the counter
TIMx_CNT and signalled on OC4 output.

2. if CC4 channel is configured as input (CC4S bits in TIMx_CCMR4 register):
CCR4 is the counter value transferred by the last input capture 4 event (IC4). The
TIMx_CCR4 register is read-only and cannot be programmed.


RM0490 Rev 5 509/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**18.4.20** **TIMx DMA control register (TIMx_DCR)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x48


Reset value: 0x0000

|15|14|13|12 11 10 9 8|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|7|6|5|4 3 2 1 0|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|
||||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw||||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:13 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 12:8 **DBL[4:0]** : DMA burst length

This 5-bit vector defines the number of DMA transfers (the timer recognizes a burst transfer
when a read or a write access is done to the TIMx_DMAR address).
00000: 1 transfer,
00001: 2 transfers,
00010: 3 transfers,

...

10001: 18 transfers.


Bits 7:5 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 4:0 **DBA[4:0]** : DMA base address

This 5-bit vector defines the base-address for DMA transfers (when read/write access are
done through the TIMx_DMAR address). DBA is defined as an offset starting from the
address of the TIMx_CR1 register.
Example:
00000: TIMx_CR1
00001: TIMx_CR2
00010: TIMx_SMCR

...

**Example** : Let us consider the following transfer: DBL = 7 transfers & DBA = TIMx_CR1. In
this case the transfer is done to/from 7 registers starting from the TIMx_CR1 address.


**18.4.21** **TIMx DMA address for full transfer (TIMx_DMAR)(x = 2 to 3)**


Address offset: 0x4C


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:0 **DMAB[15:0]** : DMA register for burst accesses

A read or write operation to the DMAR register accesses the register located at the address

(TIMx_CR1 address) + (DBA + DMA index) x 4

where TIMx_CR1 address is the address of the control register 1, DBA is the DMA base
address configured in TIMx_DCR register, DMA index is automatically controlled by the
DMA transfer, and ranges from 0 to DBL (DBL configured in TIMx_DCR).


510/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**18.4.22** **TIM2 alternate function option register 1 (TIM2_AF1)**


This register applies to STM32C071xx only. It is reserved otherwise.


Address offset: 0x60


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17 16|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|ETRSEL[3:2]|ETRSEL[3:2]|
|||||||||||||||rw|rw|


|15 14|Col2|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|ETRSEL[1:0]|ETRSEL[1:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|rw|rw|||||||||||||||



Bits 31:18 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 17:14 **ETRSEL[3:0]** : ETR source selection

These bits select the ETR input source.
0000: ETR legacy mode

0011: LSE

0100: MCO

0101: MCO2

Others: Reserved


Bits 13:0 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


**18.4.23** **TIM3 alternate function option register 1 (TIM3_AF1)**


Address offset: 0x60


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17 16|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|ETRSEL[3:2]|ETRSEL[3:2]|
|||||||||||||||rw|rw|


|15 14|Col2|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|ETRSEL[1:0]|ETRSEL[1:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|rw|rw|||||||||||||||



Bits 31:18 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 17:14 **ETRSEL[3:0]** : ETR source selection

These bits select the ETR input source.
0000: ETR legacy mode

Others: Reserved


Bits 13:0 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


RM0490 Rev 5 511/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**18.4.24** **TIM2 timer input selection register (TIM2_TISEL)**


This register applies to STM32C071xx only. It is reserved otherwise.


Address offset: 0x68


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19 18 17 16|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI3SEL[3:0]|TI3SEL[3:0]|TI3SEL[3:0]|TI3SEL[3:0]|
|||||||||||||rw|rw|rw|rw|


|15|14|13|12|11 10 9 8|Col6|Col7|Col8|7|6|5|4|3 2 1 0|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI2SEL[3:0]|TI2SEL[3:0]|TI2SEL[3:0]|TI2SEL[3:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI1SEL[3:0]|TI1SEL[3:0]|TI1SEL[3:0]|TI1SEL[3:0]|
|||||rw|rw|rw|rw|||||rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:20 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 19:16 **TI3SEL[3:0]** : TI3[0] to TI3[15] input selection

These bits select the TI3[0] to TI3[15] input source.
0000: TIM2_CH3 input

Others: Reserved


Bits 15:12 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 11:8 **TI2SEL[3:0]** : TI2[0] to TI2[15] input selection

These bits select the TI2[0] to TI2[15] input source.
0000: TIM2_CH2 input

Others: Reserved


Bits 7:4 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 3:0 **TI1SEL[3:0]** : TI1[0] to TI1[15] input selection

These bits select the TI1[0] to TI1[15] input source.
0000: TIM2_CH1 input

Others: Reserved


**18.4.25** **TIM3 timer input selection register (TIM3_TISEL)**


Address offset: 0x68


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19 18 17 16|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI3SEL[3:0]|TI3SEL[3:0]|TI3SEL[3:0]|TI3SEL[3:0]|
|||||||||||||rw|rw|rw|rw|


|15|14|13|12|11 10 9 8|Col6|Col7|Col8|7|6|5|4|3 2 1 0|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI2SEL[3:0]|TI2SEL[3:0]|TI2SEL[3:0]|TI2SEL[3:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI1SEL[3:0]|TI1SEL[3:0]|TI1SEL[3:0]|TI1SEL[3:0]|
|||||rw|rw|rw|rw|||||rw|rw|rw|rw|



512/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


Bits 31:20 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 19:16 **TI3SEL[3:0]** : TI3[0] to TI3[15] input selection

These bits select the TI3[0] to TI3[15] input source.
0000: TIM3_CH3 input

Others: Reserved


Bits 15:12 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 11:8 **TI2SEL[3:0]** : TI2[0] to TI2[15] input selection

These bits select the TI2[0] to TI2[15] input source.
0000: TIM3_CH2 input

Others: Reserved


Bits 7:4 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 3:0 **TI1SEL[3:0]** : TI1[0] to TI1[15] input selection

These bits select the TI1[0] to TI1[15] input source.
0000: TIM3_CH1 input

Others: Reserved


RM0490 Rev 5 513/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**18.4.26** **TIMx register map**


TIMx registers are mapped as described in the table below:


**Table 86. TIM2/TIM3 register map and reset values**









































































|Offset|Register<br>name|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0x00|**TIMx_CR1**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|UIFREMA|Res.|CKD<br>[1:0]|CKD<br>[1:0]|ARPE|CMS<br>[1:0]|CMS<br>[1:0]|DIR|OPM|URS|UDIS|CEN|
|0x00|Reset value|||||||||||||||||||||0||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x04|**TIMx_CR2**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI1S|MMS[2:0]|MMS[2:0]|MMS[2:0]|CCDS|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|0x04|Reset value|||||||||||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0||||
|0x08|**TIMx_SMCR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TS<br>[4:3]|TS<br>[4:3]|Res.|Res.|Res.|SMS[3]|ETP|ECE|ETPS<br>[1:0]|ETPS<br>[1:0]|ETF[3:0]|ETF[3:0]|ETF[3:0]|ETF[3:0]|MSM|TS[2:0]|TS[2:0]|TS[2:0]|Res.|SMS[2:0]|SMS[2:0]|SMS[2:0]|
|0x08|Reset value|||||||||||0|0||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0||0|0|0|
|0x0C|**TIMx_DIER**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TDE|Res.|CC4DE|CC3DE|CC2DE|CC1DE|UDE|Res.|TIE|Res.|CC4IE|CC3IE|CC2IE|CC1IE|UIE|
|0x0C|Reset value||||||||||||||||||0||0|0|0|0|0||0||0|0|0|0|0|
|0x10|**TIMx_SR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|CC4OF|CC3OF|CC2OF|CC1OF|Res.|Res.|TIF|Res.|CC4IF|CC3IF|CC2IF|CC1IF|UIF|
|0x10|Reset value||||||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|||0||0|0|0|0|0|
|0x14|**TIMx_EGR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TG|Res.|CC4G|CC3G|CC2G|CC1G|UG|
|0x14|Reset value||||||||||||||||||||||||||0||0|0|0|0|0|
|0x18|**TIMx_CCMR1**<br>Output<br>Compare mode|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|OC2M[3]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|OC1M[3]|OC2CE|OC2M<br>[2:0]|OC2M<br>[2:0]|OC2M<br>[2:0]|OC2PE|OC2FE|CC2S<br>[1:0]|CC2S<br>[1:0]|OC1CE|OC1M<br>[2:0]|OC1M<br>[2:0]|OC1M<br>[2:0]|OC1PE|OC1FE|CC1S<br>[1:0]|CC1S<br>[1:0]|
|0x18|Reset value||||||||0||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x18|**TIMx_CCMR1**<br>Input Capture<br>mode|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|IC2F[3:0]|IC2F[3:0]|IC2F[3:0]|IC2F[3:0]|IC2<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|IC2<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|CC2S<br>[1:0]|CC2S<br>[1:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1F[3:0]|IC1<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|IC1<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|CC1S<br>[1:0]|CC1S<br>[1:0]|
|0x18|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x1C|**TIMx_CCMR2**<br>Output<br>Compare mode|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|OC4M[3]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|OC3M[3]|O24CE|OC4M<br>[2:0]|OC4M<br>[2:0]|OC4M<br>[2:0]|OC4PE|OC4FE|CC4S<br>[1:0]|CC4S<br>[1:0]|OC3CE|OC3M<br>[2:0]|OC3M<br>[2:0]|OC3M<br>[2:0]|OC3PE|OC3FE|CC3S<br>[1:0]|CC3S<br>[1:0]|
|0x1C|Reset value||||||||0||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x1C|**TIMx_CCMR2**<br>Input Capture<br>mode|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|IC4F[3:0]|IC4F[3:0]|IC4F[3:0]|IC4F[3:0]|IC4<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|IC4<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|CC4S<br>[1:0]|CC4S<br>[1:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3F[3:0]|IC3<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|IC3<br>PSC<br>[1:0]|CC3S<br>[1:0]|CC3S<br>[1:0]|
|0x1C|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x20|**TIMx_CCER**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|CC4NP|Res.|CC4P|CC4E|CC3NP|Res.|CC3P|CC3E|CC2NP|Res.|CC2P|CC2E|CC1NP|Res.|CC1P|CC1E|
|0x20|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0||0|0|0||0|0|0||0|0|0||0|0|


514/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)**


**Table 86. TIM2/TIM3 register map and reset values (continued)**







































|Offset|Register<br>name|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0x24|**TIMx_CNT**|CNT[31] or UIFCPY|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[30:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|
|0x24|Reset value|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x28|**TIMx_PSC**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|
|0x28|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x2C|**TIMx_ARR**|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|
|0x2C|Reset value|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|
|0x30|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|
|0x34|**TIMx_CCR1**|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|CCR1[15:0]|
|0x34|Reset value|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x38|**TIMx_CCR2**|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|CCR2[15:0]|
|0x38|Reset value|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x3C|**TIMx_CCR3**|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|CCR3[15:0]|
|0x3C|Reset value|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x40|**TIMx_CCR4**|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[31:16]<br>( only, reserved on the other timers)|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|CCR4[15:0]|
|0x40|Reset value|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x44|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|
|0x48|**TIMx_DCR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|DBL[4:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|DBA[4:0]|
|0x48|Reset value||||||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0||||0|0|0|0|0|
|0x4C|**TIMx_DMAR**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|DMAB[15:0]|
|0x4C|Reset value|||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x60|**TIM2_AF1**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|ETRSEL<br>[3:0]|ETRSEL<br>[3:0]|ETRSEL<br>[3:0]|ETRSEL<br>[3:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|0x60|Reset value|||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|||||||||||||||
|0x60|**TIM3_AF1**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|ETRSEL<br>[3:0]|ETRSEL<br>[3:0]|ETRSEL<br>[3:0]|ETRSEL<br>[3:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|0x60|Reset value|||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|||||||||||||||


RM0490 Rev 5 515/1027



516


**General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3)** **RM0490**


**Table 86. TIM2/TIM3 register map and reset values (continued)**





















|Offset|Register<br>name|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0x68|**TIM2_TISEL**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI3SEL[3:0]|TI3SEL[3:0]|TI3SEL[3:0]|TI3SEL[3:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI2SEL[3:0]|TI2SEL[3:0]|TI2SEL[3:0]|TI2SEL[3:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI1SEL[3:0]|TI1SEL[3:0]|TI1SEL[3:0]|TI1SEL[3:0]|
|0x68|Reset value|||||||||||||0|0|0|0|||||0|0|0|0|||||0|0|0|0|
|0x68|**TIM3_TISEL**|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI3SEL[3:0]|TI3SEL[3:0]|TI3SEL[3:0]|TI3SEL[3:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI2SEL[3:0]|TI2SEL[3:0]|TI2SEL[3:0]|TI2SEL[3:0]|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TI1SEL[3:0]|TI1SEL[3:0]|TI1SEL[3:0]|TI1SEL[3:0]|
|0x68|Reset value|||||||||||||0|0|0|0|||||0|0|0|0|||||0|0|0|0|


Refer to _Section 2.2 on page 45_ for the register boundary addresses.


516/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


