**Clock recovery system (CRS)** **RM0490**

# **7 Clock recovery system (CRS)**


This section applies only to STM32C071xx devices.

## **7.1 CRS introduction**


The clock recovery system (CRS) is an advanced digital controller acting on the internal
fine-granularity trimmable RC oscillator HSIUSB. The CRS provides powerful means to
evaluate the oscillator output frequency, based on comparison with a selectable
synchronization signal. The CRS can perform automatic trimming adjustments based on the
measured frequency error value, while keeping the possibility of a manual trimming.


The CRS is ideally suited to provide a precise clock to the USB peripheral. In this case, the
synchronization signal can be derived from the start-of-frame (SOF) packet signalization on
the USB bus, sent by a USB host at 1 ms intervals.


The synchronization signal can also be derived from alternative synchronization or
generated by the user software.

## **7.2 CRS main features**


      - Selectable synchronization source with programmable prescaler and polarity (see
_Section 7.4.2: CRS internal signals_ )


      - Possibility to generate synchronization pulses by software


      - Automatic oscillator trimming capability with no need of CPU action


      - Manual control option for faster startup convergence


      - 16-bit frequency error counter with automatic error value capture and reload


      - Programmable limit for automatic frequency error value evaluation and status reporting


      - Maskable interrupts/events:


–
Expected synchronization (ESYNC)


–
Synchronization OK (SYNCOK)


–
Synchronization warning (SYNCWARN)


–
Synchronization or trimming error (ERR)

## **7.3 CRS implementation**


**Table 32. CRS features**

|Feature|CRS|
|---|---|
|TRIM width|7 bits|



166/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **Clock recovery system (CRS)**

## **7.4 CRS functional description**


**7.4.1** **CRS block diagram**


**Figure 14. CRS block diagram**





















**7.4.2** **CRS internal signals**


Below the list of CRS internal signals.


**Table 33. CRS internal input/output signals**

|Internal signal name|Signal type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|crs_it|Digital output|CRS interrupt|
|crs_pclk|Digital input|AHB bus clock|
|crs_48m_ck|Digital input|HSIUSB 48 MHz clock|
|crs_trim[0:6]|Digital output|HSIUSB oscillator smooth trimming value|



RM0490 Rev 5 167/1027



176


**Clock recovery system (CRS)** **RM0490**


**Table 33. CRS internal input/output signals (continued)**

|Internal signal name|Signal type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|crs_sync_in_0|Digital input|SYNC signal source|
|crs_sync_in_1|crs_sync_in_1|crs_sync_in_1|
|crs_sync_in_2|crs_sync_in_2|crs_sync_in_2|
|crs_sync_in_3|crs_sync_in_3|crs_sync_in_3|



**Table 34. CRS interconnection**

|Internal signal name|Description|
|---|---|
|crs_sync_in_0|GPIO selected as SYNC signal source|
|crs_sync_in_1|LSE selected as SYNC signal source|
|crs_sync_in_2|USB SOF selected as SYNC signal source (default)|
|crs_sync_in_3|Reserved|



**7.4.3** **Synchronization input**


The CRS synchronization source (crs_sync_in_x) can be selected through SYNCSRC[1:0]
bitfield of CRS_CFGR register (refer to _Section 7.4.2: CRS internal signals_ for the possible
sources). For a better robustness of the crs_sync_in_x input, a simple digital filter (2 out of 3
majority votes, sampled by the 48 MHz clock) is implemented to filter out glitches. In
addition, the source signal has a configurable polarity (selected through SYNCPOL bit of
CRS_CFGR). The signal can then be divided by a programmable binary prescaler to obtain
a synchronization signal in a suitable frequency range (usually around 1 kHz).


For more information on the CRS synchronization source configuration, refer to
CRS_CFGR register.


It is also possible to generate a synchronization event by software, by setting the SWSYNC
bit in the CRS_CR register.


For more information on the CRS synchronization source configuration, refer to _CRS_
_configuration register (CRS_CFGR)_ .


It is also possible to generate a synchronization event by software, by setting the SWSYNC
bit in the CRS_CR register.


**7.4.4** **Frequency error measurement**


The frequency error counter is a 16-bit down/up counter, reloaded with the RELOAD value
on each SYNC event. It starts counting down until it reaches the zero value, where the
ESYNC (expected synchronization) event is generated. Then it starts counting up to the
OUTRANGE limit, where it eventually stops (if no SYNC event is received), and generates a
SYNCMISS event. The OUTRANGE limit is defined as the frequency error limit (FELIM field
of the CRS_CFGR register) multiplied by 128.


When the SYNC event is detected, the actual value of the frequency error counter and its
counting direction are stored in the FECAP (frequency error capture) field and in the FEDIR
(frequency error direction) bit of the CRS_ISR register. When the SYNC event is detected
during the down-counting phase (before reaching the zero value), it means that the actual


168/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **Clock recovery system (CRS)**


frequency is lower than the target (the TRIM value must be incremented). When it is
detected during the up-counting phase, it means that the actual frequency is higher (the
TRIM value must be decremented).


**Figure 15. CRS counter behavior**















**7.4.5** **Frequency error evaluation and automatic trimming**


The measured frequency error is evaluated by comparing its value with a set of limits:


      - TOLERANCE LIMIT, given directly in the FELIM field of the CRS_CFGR register


      - WARNING LIMIT, defined as 3 × FELIM value


      - OUTRANGE (error limit), defined as 128 × FELIM value


The result of this comparison is used to generate the status indication and also to control the
automatic trimming, which is enabled by setting the AUTOTRIMEN bit in the CRS_CR
register:


      - When the frequency error is below the tolerance limit, it means that the actual trimming
value in the TRIM field is the optimal one, hence no trimming action is needed.


– SYNCOK status indicated


–
TRIM value not changed in AUTOTRIM mode


      - When the frequency error is below the warning limit but above or equal to the tolerance
limit, it means that some trimming action is necessary but that adjustment by one
trimming step is enough to reach the optimal TRIM value.


– SYNCOK status indicated


RM0490 Rev 5 169/1027



176


**Clock recovery system (CRS)** **RM0490**


–
TRIM value adjusted by one trimming step in AUTOTRIM mode


      - When the frequency error is above or equal to the warning limit but below the error
limit, a stronger trimming action is necessary, and there is a risk that the optimal TRIM
value is not reached for the next period.


– SYNCWARN status indicated


–
TRIM value adjusted by two trimming steps in AUTOTRIM mode


      - When the frequency error is above or equal to the error limit, the frequency is out of the
trimming range. This can also happen when the SYNC input is not clean, or when
some SYNC pulse is missing (for example when one USB SOF is corrupted).


– SYNCERR or SYNCMISS status indicated


–
TRIM value not changed in AUTOTRIM mode


_Note:_ _If the actual value of the TRIM field is close to its limits and the automatic trimming can force_
_it to overflow or underflow, the TRIM value is set to the limit, and the TRIMOVF status is_
_indicated._


_In AUTOTRIM mode (AUTOTRIMEN bit set in the CRS_CR register), the TRIM field of_
_CRS_CR is adjusted by hardware and is read-only._


**7.4.6** **CRS initialization and configuration**


**RELOAD value**


The RELOAD value must be selected according to the ratio between the target frequency
and the frequency of the synchronization source after prescaling. This value is decreased
by 1, to reach the expected synchronization on the zero value. The formula is the following:


RELOAD = (f TARGET / f SYNC ) - 1


The reset value of the RELOAD field corresponds to a target frequency of 48 MHz and a
synchronization signal frequency of 1 kHz (SOF signal from USB).


**FELIM value**


The selection of the FELIM value is closely coupled with the HSIUSB oscillator
characteristics and its typical trimming step size. The optimal value corresponds to half of
the trimming step size, expressed as a number of oscillator clock ticks. The following
formula can be used:


FELIM = (f TARGET / f SYNC ) * STEP[%] / 100% / 2


The result must be always rounded up to the nearest integer value to obtain the best
trimming response. If frequent trimming actions are not needed in the application, the
hysteresis can be increased by slightly increasing the FELIM value.


The reset value of the FELIM field corresponds to (f TARGET / f SYNC ) = 48000, and to a typical
trimming step size of 0.14%.


_Note:_ _The trimming step size depends upon the product, check the datasheet for accurate setting._


**Caution:** There is no hardware protection from a wrong configuration of the RELOAD and FELIM
fields, this can lead to an erratic trimming response. The expected operational mode
requires proper setup of the RELOAD value (according to the synchronization source
frequency), which is also greater than 128 * FELIM value (OUTRANGE limit).


170/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **Clock recovery system (CRS)**

## **7.5 CRS in low-power modes**


**Table 35. Effect of low-power modes on CRS**

|Mode|Description|
|---|---|
|Sleep|No effect. CRS interrupts cause the device to exit the Sleep mode.|
|Stop|CRS registers are frozen. The CRS stops operating until the Stop mode is exited and the<br>HSIUSB oscillator is restarted.|
|Standby|The peripheral is powered down and must be reinitialized after exiting Standby mode.|
|Shutdown|The peripheral is powered down and must be reinitialized after exiting Shutdown mode.|


## **7.6 CRS interrupts**


**Table 36. Interrupt control bits**

|Interrupt event|Event flag|Enable<br>control bit|Clear<br>flag bit|
|---|---|---|---|
|Expected synchronization|ESYNCF|ESYNCIE|ESYNCC|
|Synchronization OK|SYNCOKF|SYNCOKIE|SYNCOKC|
|Synchronization warning|SYNCWARNF|SYNCWARNIE|SYNCWARNC|
|Synchronization or trimming error<br>(TRIMOVF, SYNCMISS, SYNCERR)|ERRF|ERRIE|ERRC|


## **7.7 CRS registers**


Refer to _Section 1.2_ for a list of abbreviations used in register descriptions.


The peripheral registers can be accessed only by words (32-bit).


**7.7.1** **CRS control register (CRS_CR)**


Address offset: 0x00


Reset value: 0x0000 4000

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|||||||||||||||||


|15|14 13 12 11 10 9 8|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|TRIM[6:0]|TRIM[6:0]|TRIM[6:0]|TRIM[6:0]|TRIM[6:0]|TRIM[6:0]|TRIM[6:0]|SW<br>SYNC|AUTO<br>TRIMEN|CEN|Res.|ESYNC<br>IE|ERR<br>IE|SYNC<br>WARNIE|SYNC<br>OKIE|
||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rt_w1|rw|rw||rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:15 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 14:8 **TRIM[6:0]** : HSIUSB oscillator smooth trimming

The default value of the HSIUSB oscillator smooth trimming is 64, which corresponds to the
middle of the trimming interval.


RM0490 Rev 5 171/1027



176


**Clock recovery system (CRS)** **RM0490**


Bit 7 **SWSYNC** : Generate software SYNC event

This bit is set by software in order to generate a software SYNC event. It is automatically
cleared by hardware.

0: No action

1: A software SYNC event is generated.


Bit 6 **AUTOTRIMEN** : Automatic trimming enable

This bit enables the automatic hardware adjustment of TRIM bits according to the measured
frequency error between two SYNC events. If this bit is set, the TRIM bits are read-only. The
TRIM value can be adjusted by hardware by one or two steps at a time, depending on the
measured frequency error value. Refer to _Section 7.4.5_ for more details.
0: Automatic trimming disabled, TRIM bits can be adjusted by the user.
1: Automatic trimming enabled, TRIM bits are read-only and under hardware control.


Bit 5 **CEN** : Frequency error counter enable

This bit enables the oscillator clock for the frequency error counter.
0: Frequency error counter disabled
1: Frequency error counter enabled
When this bit is set, the CRS_CFGR register is write-protected and cannot be modified.


Bit 4 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 3 **ESYNCIE** : Expected SYNC interrupt enable

0: Expected SYNC (ESYNCF) interrupt disabled
1: Expected SYNC (ESYNCF) interrupt enabled


Bit 2 **ERRIE** : Synchronization or trimming error interrupt enable

0: Synchronization or trimming error (ERRF) interrupt disabled
1: Synchronization or trimming error (ERRF) interrupt enabled


Bit 1 **SYNCWARNIE** : SYNC warning interrupt enable

0: SYNC warning (SYNCWARNF) interrupt disabled
1: SYNC warning (SYNCWARNF) interrupt enabled


Bit 0 **SYNCOKIE** : SYNC event OK interrupt enable

0: SYNC event OK (SYNCOKF) interrupt disabled
1: SYNC event OK (SYNCOKF) interrupt enabled


**7.7.2** **CRS configuration register (CRS_CFGR)**


This register can be written only when the frequency error counter is disabled (the CEN bit is
cleared in CRS_CR). When the counter is enabled, this register is write-protected.


Address offset: 0x04


Reset value: 0x2022 BB7F

|31|30|29 28|Col4|27|26 25 24|Col7|Col8|23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|SYNCPOL|Res.|SYNCSRC[1:0]|SYNCSRC[1:0]|Res.|SYNCDIV[2:0]|SYNCDIV[2:0]|SYNCDIV[2:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|
|rw||rw|rw||rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|


|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



172/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **Clock recovery system (CRS)**


Bit 31 **SYNCPOL** : SYNC polarity selection

This bit is set and cleared by software to select the input polarity for the SYNC signal source.
0: SYNC active on rising edge (default)
1: SYNC active on falling edge


Bit 30 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 29:28 **SYNCSRC[1:0]** : SYNC signal source selection

These bits are set and cleared by software to select the SYNC signal source (see
_Section 7.4.2: CRS internal signals_ ).
00: crs_sync_in_0 selected as SYNC signal source
01: crs_sync_in_1 selected as SYNC signal source
10: crs_sync_in_2 selected as SYNC signal source
11: crs_sync_in_3 selected as SYNC signal source

_Note: When using USB LPM (link power management) and the device is in Sleep mode, the_
_periodic USB SOF is not generated by the host. No SYNC signal is therefore provided_
_to the CRS to calibrate the 48 MHz clock on the run. To guarantee the required clock_
_precision after waking up from Sleep mode, the LSE clock or the SYNC pin must be_
_used as SYNC signal._


Bit 27 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 26:24 **SYNCDIV[2:0]** : SYNC divider

These bits are set and cleared by software to control the division factor of the SYNC signal.
000: SYNC not divided (default)
001: SYNC divided by 2
010: SYNC divided by 4
011: SYNC divided by 8
100: SYNC divided by 16
101: SYNC divided by 32
110: SYNC divided by 64
111: SYNC divided by 128


Bits 23:16 **FELIM[7:0]** : Frequency error limit

FELIM contains the value to be used to evaluate the captured frequency error value latched
in the FECAP[15:0] bits of the CRS_ISR register. Refer to _Section 7.4.5_ for more details
about FECAP evaluation.


Bits 15:0 **RELOAD[15:0]** : Counter reload value

RELOAD is the value to be loaded in the frequency error counter with each SYNC event.

Refer to _Section 7.4.4_ for more details about counter behavior.


**7.7.3** **CRS interrupt and status register (CRS_ISR)**


Address offset: 0x08


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|
|r|r|r|r|r|r|r|r|r|r|r|r|r|r|r|r|


|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|FEDIR|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TRIM<br>OVF|SYNC<br>MISS|SYNC<br>ERR|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|ESYNCF|ERRF|SYNC<br>WARNF|SYNC<br>OKF|
|r|||||r|r|r|||||r|r|r|r|



RM0490 Rev 5 173/1027



176


**Clock recovery system (CRS)** **RM0490**


Bits 31:16 **FECAP[15:0]** : Frequency error capture

FECAP is the frequency error counter value latched in the time of the last SYNC event.
Refer to _Section 7.4.5_ for more details about FECAP usage.


Bit 15 **FEDIR** : Frequency error direction

FEDIR is the counting direction of the frequency error counter latched in the time of the last
SYNC event. It shows whether the actual frequency is below or above the target.
0: Up-counting direction, the actual frequency is above the target
1: Down-counting direction, the actual frequency is below the target


Bits 14:11 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 10 **TRIMOVF** : Trimming overflow or underflow

This flag is set by hardware when the automatic trimming tries to over- or under-flow the
TRIM value. An interrupt is generated if the ERRIE bit is set in the CRS_CR register. It is
cleared by software by setting the ERRC bit in the CRS_ICR register.
0: No trimming error signaled
1: Trimming error signaled


Bit 9 **SYNCMISS** : SYNC missed

This flag is set by hardware when the frequency error counter reaches value FELIM * 128
and no SYNC is detected, meaning either that a SYNC pulse was missed, or the frequency
error is too big (internal frequency too high) to be compensated by adjusting the TRIM value,
hence some other action must be taken. At this point, the frequency error counter is stopped
(waiting for a next SYNC), and an interrupt is generated if the ERRIE bit is set in the
CRS_CR register. It is cleared by software by setting the ERRC bit in the CRS_ICR register.
0: No SYNC missed error signaled
1: SYNC missed error signaled


Bit 8 **SYNCERR** : SYNC error

This flag is set by hardware when the SYNC pulse arrives before the ESYNC event and the
measured frequency error is greater than or equal to FELIM * 128. This means that the
frequency error is too big (internal frequency too low) to be compensated by adjusting the
TRIM value, and that some other action has to be taken. An interrupt is generated if the
ERRIE bit is set in the CRS_CR register. It is cleared by software by setting the ERRC bit in
the CRS_ICR register.
0: No SYNC error signaled
1: SYNC error signaled


Bits 7:4 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 3 **ESYNCF** : Expected SYNC flag

This flag is set by hardware when the frequency error counter reached a zero value. An
interrupt is generated if the ESYNCIE bit is set in the CRS_CR register. It is cleared by
software by setting the ESYNCC bit in the CRS_ICR register.
0: No expected SYNC signaled
1: Expected SYNC signaled


Bit 2 **ERRF** : Error flag

This flag is set by hardware in case of any synchronization or trimming error. It is the logical
OR of the TRIMOVF, SYNCMISS and SYNCERR bits. An interrupt is generated if the ERRIE
bit is set in the CRS_CR register. It is cleared by software in reaction to setting the ERRC bit
in the CRS_ICR register, which clears the TRIMOVF, SYNCMISS and SYNCERR bits.
0: No synchronization or trimming error signaled
1: Synchronization or trimming error signaled


174/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


**RM0490** **Clock recovery system (CRS)**


Bit 1 **SYNCWARNF** : SYNC warning flag

This flag is set by hardware when the measured frequency error is greater than or equal to
FELIM * 3, but smaller than FELIM * 128. This means that to compensate the frequency
error, the TRIM value must be adjusted by two steps or more. An interrupt is generated if the
SYNCWARNIE bit is set in the CRS_CR register. It is cleared by software by setting the
SYNCWARNC bit in the CRS_ICR register.
0: No SYNC warning signaled
1: SYNC warning signaled


Bit 0 **SYNCOKF** : SYNC event OK flag

This flag is set by hardware when the measured frequency error is smaller than FELIM * 3.
This means that either no adjustment of the TRIM value is needed or that an adjustment by
one trimming step is enough to compensate the frequency error. An interrupt is generated if
the SYNCOKIE bit is set in the CRS_CR register. It is cleared by software by setting the
SYNCOKC bit in the CRS_ICR register.
0: No SYNC event OK signaled
1: SYNC event OK signaled


**7.7.4** **CRS interrupt flag clear register (CRS_ICR)**


Address offset: 0x0C


Reset value: 0x0000 0000

|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|
|||||||||||||||||


|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|ESYNCC|ERRC|SYNC<br>WARNC|SYNC<br>OKC|
|||||||||||||rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 31:4 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 3 **ESYNCC** : Expected SYNC clear flag

Writing 1 to this bit clears the ESYNCF flag in the CRS_ISR register.


Bit 2 **ERRC** : Error clear flag

Writing 1 to this bit clears TRIMOVF, SYNCMISS, and SYNCERR bits and consequently also
the ERRF flag in the CRS_ISR register.


Bit 1 **SYNCWARNC** : SYNC warning clear flag

Writing 1 to this bit clears the SYNCWARNF flag in the CRS_ISR register.


Bit 0 **SYNCOKC** : SYNC event OK clear flag

Writing 1 to this bit clears the SYNCOKF flag in the CRS_ISR register.


RM0490 Rev 5 175/1027



176


**Clock recovery system (CRS)** **RM0490**


**7.7.5** **CRS register map**


**Table 37. CRS register map and reset values**













|Offset|Register<br>name<br>Reset value|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0x00|CRS_CR|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TRIM[6:0]|TRIM[6:0]|TRIM[6:0]|TRIM[6:0]|TRIM[6:0]|TRIM[6:0]|TRIM[6:0]|SWSYNC|AUTOTRIMEN|CEN|Res.|ESYNCIE|ERRIE|SYNCWARNIE|SYNCOKIE|
|0x00|Reset value|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|0x0000 4000|
|0x04|CRS_CFGR|SYNCPOL|Res.|SYNC<br>SRC<br>[1:0]|SYNC<br>SRC<br>[1:0]|Res.|SYNC<br>DIV<br>[2:0]|SYNC<br>DIV<br>[2:0]|SYNC<br>DIV<br>[2:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|FELIM[7:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|RELOAD[15:0]|
|0x04|Reset value|0||1|0||0|0|0|0|0|1|0|0|0|1|0|1|0|1|1|1|0|1|1|0|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|
|0x08|CRS_ISR|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FECAP[15:0]|FEDIR|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|TRIMOVF|SYNCMISS|SYNCERR|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|ESYNCF|ERRF|SYNCWARNF|SYNCOKF|
|0x08|Reset value|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|||||0|0|0|||||0|0|0|0|
|0x0C|CRS_ICR|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|Res.|ESYNCC|ERRC|SYNCWARNC|SYNCOKC|
|0x0C|Reset value|||||||||||||||||||||||||||||0|0|0|0|


Refer to _Section 2.2_ for the register boundary addresses.


176/1027 RM0490 Rev 5


