**Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)** **RM0041**

# **16 Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)**


**Low-density value line devices** are STM32F100xx microcontrollers where the flash
memory density ranges between 16 and 32 Kbytes.


**Medium-density value line devices** are STM32F100xx microcontrollers where the flash
memory density ranges between 64 and 128 Kbytes.


**High-density value line devices** are STM32F100xx microcontrollers where the flash
memory density ranges between 256 and 512 Kbytes.


_This_ section _applies to the whole STM32F100xx family, unless otherwise specified._

## **16.1 TIM6 and TIM7 introduction**


The basic timers TIM6 and TIM7 consist of a 16-bit auto-reload counter driven by a
programmable prescaler.


They may be used as generic timers for time-base generation but they are also specifically
used to drive the digital-to-analog converter (DAC). In fact, the timers are internally
connected to the DAC and are able to drive it through their trigger outputs.


The timers are completely independent, and do not share any resources.

## **16.2 TIM6 and TIM7 main features**


Basic timer (TIM6 and TIM7) features include:


      - 16-bit auto-reload upcounter


      - 16-bit programmable prescaler used to divide (also “on the fly”) the counter clock
frequency by any factor between 1 and 65536


      - Synchronization circuit to trigger the DAC


      - Interrupt/DMA generation on the update event: counter overflow


456/709 RM0041 Rev 6


**RM0041** **Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)**


**Figure 186. Basic timer block diagram**


























## **16.3 TIM6 and TIM7 functional description**

**16.3.1** **Time-base unit**


The main block of the programmable timer is a 16-bit upcounter with its related auto-reload
register. The counter clock can be divided by a prescaler.


The counter, the auto-reload register and the prescaler register can be written or read by
software. This is true even when the counter is running.


The time-base unit includes:


      - Counter register (TIMx_CNT)


      - Prescaler register (TIMx_PSC)


      - Auto-Reload register (TIMx_ARR)


The auto-reload register is preloaded. The preload register is accessed each time an
attempt is made to write or read the auto-reload register. The contents of the preload
register are transferred into the shadow register permanently or at each update event UEV,
depending on the auto-reload preload enable bit (ARPE) in the TIMx_CR1 register. The
update event is sent when the counter reaches the overflow value and if the UDIS bit equals
0 in the TIMx_CR1 register. It can also be generated by software. The generation of the
update event is described in detail for each configuration.


The counter is clocked by the prescaler output CK_CNT, which is enabled only when the
counter enable bit (CEN) in the TIMx_CR1 register is set.


Note that the actual counter enable signal CNT_EN is set 1 clock cycle after CEN.


RM0041 Rev 6 457/709



468


**Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)** **RM0041**


**Prescaler description**


The prescaler can divide the counter clock frequency by any factor between 1 and 65536. It
is based on a 16-bit counter controlled through a 16-bit register (in the TIMx_PSC register).
It can be changed on the fly as the TIMx_PSC control register is buffered. The new
prescaler ratio is taken into account at the next update event.


_Figure 187_ and _Figure 188_ give some examples of the counter behavior when the prescaler
ratio is changed on the fly.


**Figure 187. Counter timing diagram with prescaler division change from 1 to 2**







|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|00|00|01|01|01|02|02|02|03|03|
|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|||||||||||
|F8|||||||||||||||
|F8|||||||||||||||
|F8|||||||||||||||
|F8|||||||||||||||
|F8|||||0|1|0|1|0|0|1|0|0|1|


458/709 RM0041 Rev 6


**RM0041** **Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)**


**Figure 188. Counter timing diagram with prescaler division change from 1 to 4**









**16.3.2** **Counting mode**




|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|F8|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|00|00|00|00|01|01|01|01|
|F8|F8|F9|FA|FB|FC|||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||||||||||
|F8||||||0|1|2|3|0|1|2|3|



The counter counts from 0 to the auto-reload value (contents of the TIMx_ARR register),
then restarts from 0 and generates a counter overflow event.


An update event can be generate at each counter overflow or by setting the UG bit in the
TIMx_EGR register (by software or by using the slave mode controller).


The UEV event can be disabled by software by setting the UDIS bit in the TIMx_CR1
register. This avoids updating the shadow registers while writing new values into the preload
registers. In this way, no update event occurs until the UDIS bit has been written to 0,
however, the counter and the prescaler counter both restart from 0 (but the prescale rate
does not change). In addition, if the URS (update request selection) bit in the TIMx_CR1
register is set, setting the UG bit generates an update event UEV, but the UIF flag is not set
(so no interrupt or DMA request is sent).


When an update event occurs, all the registers are updated and the update flag (UIF bit in
the TIMx_SR register) is set (depending on the URS bit):


- The buffer of the prescaler is reloaded with the preload value (contents of the
TIMx_PSC register)


- The auto-reload shadow register is updated with the preload value (TIMx_ARR)


The following figures show some examples of the counter behavior for different clock
frequencies when TIMx_ARR = 0x36.


RM0041 Rev 6 459/709



468


**Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)** **RM0041**


**Figure 189. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 1**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|32|33|34|35|36|00|01|02|03|04|05|06|07|



**Figure 190. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 2**









460/709 RM0041 Rev 6


**RM0041** **Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)**


**Figure 191. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by 4**







**Figure 192. Counter timing diagram, internal clock divided by N**







**Figure 193. Counter timing diagram, update event when ARPE=0 (TIMx_ARR not**
**preloaded)**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|32|33|34|35|36|00<br>|01|02|03|04|05|06|07|





RM0041 Rev 6 461/709



468


**Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)** **RM0041**


**Figure 194. Counter timing diagram, update event when ARPE=1 (TIMx_ARR**
**preloaded)**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|1 F2|F3|F4|F5|00|01|02|03|04|05|06|07|





**16.3.3** **Clock source**


The counter clock is provided by the Internal clock (CK_INT) source.





The CEN (in the TIMx_CR1 register) and UG bits (in the TIMx_EGR register) are actual
control bits and can be changed only by software (except for UG that remains cleared
automatically). As soon as the CEN bit is written to 1, the prescaler is clocked by the internal
clock CK_INT.


_Figure 195_ shows the behavior of the control circuit and the upcounter in normal mode,
without prescaler.


**Figure 195. Control circuit in normal mode, internal clock divided by 1**






|Col1|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||
|31|3 2|33|34|35|36|00|01|02|03|04|05|06|07|



462/709 RM0041 Rev 6


**RM0041** **Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)**


**16.3.4** **Debug mode**


When the microcontroller enters the debug mode (Cortex [®] -M3 core - halted), the TIMx
counter either continues to work normally or stops, depending on the DBG_TIMx_STOP
configuration bit in the DBG module. For more details, refer to _Section 25.15.2: Debug_
_support for timers, watchdog and I_ _[2]_ _C_ .

## **16.4 TIM6 and TIM7 registers**


Refer to _Section 2.2_ for a list of abbreviations used in register descriptions.


The peripheral registers have to be written by half-words (16 bits) or words (32 bits). Read
accesses can be done by bytes (8 bits), half-words (16 bits) or words (32 bits).


**16.4.1** **TIM6 and TIM7 control register 1 (TIMx_CR1)**


Address offset: 0x00


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8|7|6 5 4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Reserved|ARPE|Reserved|OPM|URS|UDIS|CEN|
|Reserved|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:8 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 7 **ARPE** : Auto-reload preload enable

0: TIMx_ARR register is not buffered.
1: TIMx_ARR register is buffered.


Bits 6:4 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 3 **OPM** : One-pulse mode

0: Counter is not stopped at update event
1: Counter stops counting at the next update event (clearing the CEN bit).


RM0041 Rev 6 463/709



468


**Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)** **RM0041**


Bit 2 **URS** : Update request source

This bit is set and cleared by software to select the UEV event sources.
0: Any of the following events generates an update interrupt or DMA request if enabled.
These events can be:

– Counter overflow/underflow

–
Setting the UG bit

–
Update generation through the slave mode controller
1: Only counter overflow/underflow generates an update interrupt or DMA request if enabled.


Bit 1 **UDIS** : Update disable

This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable UEV event generation.
0: UEV enabled. The Update (UEV) event is generated by one of the following events:

– Counter overflow/underflow

–
Setting the UG bit

–
Update generation through the slave mode controller
Buffered registers are then loaded with their preload values.
1: UEV disabled. The Update event is not generated, shadow registers keep their value
(ARR, PSC). However the counter and the prescaler are reinitialized if the UG bit is set or if
a hardware reset is received from the slave mode controller.


Bit 0 **CEN** : Counter enable

0: Counter disabled

1: Counter enabled

_Note: Gated mode can work only if the CEN bit has been previously set by software. However_
_trigger mode can set the CEN bit automatically by hardware._

CEN is cleared automatically in one-pulse mode, when an update event occurs.


464/709 RM0041 Rev 6


**RM0041** **Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)**


**16.4.2** **TIM6 and TIM7 control register 2 (TIMx_CR2)**


Address offset: 0x04


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7|6 5 4|Col3|Col4|3 2 1 0|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Reserved|MMS[2:0]|MMS[2:0]|MMS[2:0]|Reserved|
|Reserved|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:7 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bits 6:4 **MMS[2:0]** : Master mode selection

These bits are used to select the information to be sent in master mode to slave timers for

synchronization (TRGO). The combination is as follows:
000: **Reset**             - the UG bit from the TIMx_EGR register is used as a trigger output (TRGO). If
reset is generated by the trigger input (slave mode controller configured in reset mode) then
the signal on TRGO is delayed compared to the actual reset.
001: **Enable**             - the Counter enable signal, CNT_EN, is used as a trigger output (TRGO). It is
useful to start several timers at the same time or to control a window in which a slave timer

is enabled. The Counter Enable signal is generated by a logic OR between CEN control bit
and the trigger input when configured in gated mode.
When the Counter Enable signal is controlled by the trigger input, there is a delay on TRGO,
except if the master/slave mode is selected (see the MSM bit description in the TIMx_SMCR
register).
010: **Update**             - The update event is selected as a trigger output (TRGO). For instance a
master timer can then be used as a prescaler for a slave timer.

_Note: The clock of the slave timer and ADC must be enabled prior to receiving events from_
_the master timer, and must not be changed on-the-fly while triggers are received from_
_the master timer._


Bits 3:0 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


**16.4.3** **TIM6 and TIM7 DMA/Interrupt enable register (TIMx_DIER)**


Address offset: 0x0C


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9|8|7 6 5 4 3 2 1|0|
|---|---|---|---|
|Reserved|UDE|Reserved|UIE|
|Reserved|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:9 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 8 **UDE** : Update DMA request enable

0: Update DMA request disabled.
1: Update DMA request enabled.


Bits 7:1 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 0 **UIE** : Update interrupt enable

0: Update interrupt disabled.
1: Update interrupt enabled.


RM0041 Rev 6 465/709



468


**Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)** **RM0041**


**16.4.4** **TIM6 and TIM7 status register (TIMx_SR)**


Address offset: 0x10


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1|0|
|---|---|
|Reserved|UIF|
|Reserved|rc_w0|



Bits 15:1 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 0 **UIF** : Update interrupt flag

This bit is set by hardware on an update event. It is cleared by software.
0: No update occurred.
1: Update interrupt pending. This bit is set by hardware when the registers are updated:

– At overflow or underflow and if UDIS = 0 in the TIMx_CR1 register.

– When CNT is reinitialized by software using the UG bit in the TIMx_EGR register, if URS = 0
and UDIS = 0 in the TIMx_CR1 register.


**16.4.5** **TIM6 and TIM7 event generation register (TIMx_EGR)**


Address offset: 0x14


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1|0|
|---|---|
|Reserved|UG|
|Reserved|w|



Bits 15:1 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.


Bit 0 **UG** : Update generation

This bit can be set by software, it is automatically cleared by hardware.
0: No action.

1: Re-initializes the timer counter and generates an update of the registers. Note that the
prescaler counter is cleared too (but the prescaler ratio is not affected).


**16.4.6** **TIM6 and TIM7 counter (TIMx_CNT)**


Address offset: 0x24


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:0 **CNT[15:0]** : Counter value


466/709 RM0041 Rev 6


**RM0041** **Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)**


**16.4.7** **TIM6 and TIM7 prescaler (TIMx_PSC)**


Address offset: 0x28


Reset value: 0x0000

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:0 **PSC[15:0]** : Prescaler value
The counter clock frequency CK_CNT is equal to f CK_PSC / (PSC[15:0] + 1).
PSC contains the value to be loaded in the active prescaler register at each update event
(including when the counter is cleared through UG bit of TIMx_EGR register or through
trigger controller when configured in “reset mode”).


**16.4.8** **TIM6 and TIM7 auto-reload register (TIMx_ARR)**


Address offset: 0x2C


Reset value: 0xFFFF

|15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|Col2|Col3|Col4|Col5|Col6|Col7|Col8|Col9|Col10|Col11|Col12|Col13|Col14|Col15|Col16|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|
|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|rw|



Bits 15:0 **ARR[15:0]** : Auto-reload value

ARR is the value to be loaded into the actual auto-reload register.
Refer to _Section 16.3.1: Time-base unit_ for more details about ARR update and behavior.

The counter is blocked while the auto-reload value is null.


RM0041 Rev 6 467/709



468


**Basic timers (TIM6 and TIM7)** **RM0041**


**16.4.9** **TIM6 and TIM7 register map**


TIMx registers are mapped as 16-bit addressable registers as described in the table below.


**Table 84. TIM6 and TIM7 register map and reset values**

















































|Offset|Register|31|30|29|28|27|26|25|24|23|22|21|20|19|18|17|16|15|14|13|12|11|10|9|8|7|6|5|4|3|2|1|0|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0x00|TIMx_CR1|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|ARPE|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|OPM|URS|UDIS|CEN|
|0x00|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x04|TIMx_CR2|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|MMS[2:0]|MMS[2:0]|MMS[2:0]|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|
|0x04|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x08|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|
|0x0C|TIMx_DIER|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|UDE|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|UIE|
|0x0C|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x10|TIMx_SR|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|UIF|
|0x10|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|0|
|0x14|TIMx_EGR|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|UG|
|0x14|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|0|
|0x18|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|
|0x1C|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|
|0x20|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|
|0x24|TIMx_CNT|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|CNT[15:0]|
|0x24|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x28|TIMx_PSC|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|PSC[15:0]|
|0x28|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|0x2C|TIMx_ARR|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|Reserved|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|ARR[15:0]|
|0x2C|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|Reset value|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|


Refer to for the register boundary addresses.


468/709 RM0041 Rev 6


